Attention:
Copy A of this form is provided for informational purposes only. Copy A appears in red,
similar to the official IRS form. The official printed version of Copy A of this IRS form is
scannable, but the online version of it, printed from this website, is not. Do not print and file
copy A downloaded from this website; a penalty may be imposed for filing with the IRS
information return forms that can’t be scanned. See part O in the current General
Instructions for Certain Information Returns, available at IRS.gov/Form1099, for more
information about penalties.
Please note that Copy B and other copies of this form, which appear in black, may be
downloaded and printed and used to satisfy the requirement to provide the information to
the recipient.
If you have 10 or more information returns to file, you may be required to file e-file. Go to
IRS.gov/InfoReturn for e-file options.
If you have fewer than 10 information returns to file, we strongly encourage you to e-file. If
you want to file them on paper, you can place an order for the official IRS information
returns, which include a scannable Copy A for filing with the IRS and all other applicable
copies of the form, at IRS.gov/EmployerForms. We’ll mail you the forms you request and
their instructions, as well as any publications you may order.
See Publications 1141, 1167, and 1179 for more information about printing these forms.

8080

VOID

CORRECTED

LENDER’S name, street address, city or town, state or province, country, ZIP or
foreign postal code, and telephone no.

OMB No. 1545-0877

1099-A

Form
(Rev. April 2025)

For calendar year

LENDER’S TIN

BORROWER’S TIN

Acquisition or
Abandonment of
Secured Property

1 Date of lender’s acquisition or 2 Balance of principal
knowledge of abandonment
outstanding

$
BORROWER’S name

3

4 Fair market value of property

Street address (including apt. no.)

5 Check if the borrower was personally liable for repayment of
the debt . . . . . . . . . . . . .

City or town, state or province, country, and ZIP or foreign postal code

6 Description of property

$

Account number (see instructions)

Copy A
For
Internal Revenue
Service Center
For filing information,
Privacy Act, and
Paperwork Reduction
Act Notice, see the
General Instructions
for Certain
Information Returns.
www.irs.gov/Form1099

Form 1099-A (Rev. 4-2025)

Cat. No. 14412G

www.irs.gov/Form1099A

Department of the Treasury - Internal Revenue Service

Do Not Cut or Separate Forms on This Page — Do Not Cut or Separate Forms on This Page

CORRECTED (if checked)
LENDER’S name, street address, city or town, state or province, country, ZIP or
foreign postal code, and telephone no.

OMB No. 1545-0877

1099-A

Form
(Rev. April 2025)

For calendar year

LENDER’S TIN

BORROWER’S TIN

Copy B
For Borrower

$
This is important tax
4 Fair market value of property information and is being
furnished to the IRS. If
you are required to file a
return, a negligence
$
penalty or other
5 If checked, the borrower was personally liable for repayment
sanction may be
of the debt . . . . . . . . . . . .
imposed on you if
taxable income results
6 Description of property
from this transaction
and the IRS determines
that it has not been
reported.
3

BORROWER’S name

Street address (including apt. no.)
City or town, state or province, country, and ZIP or foreign postal code
Account number (see instructions)
Form 1099-A (Rev. 4-2025)

1 Date of lender’s acquisition or 2 Balance of principal
knowledge of abandonment
outstanding

Acquisition or
Abandonment of
Secured Property

(keep for your records)

www.irs.gov/Form1099A

Department of the Treasury - Internal Revenue Service

Instructions for Borrower
Certain lenders who acquire an interest in property that was security for a loan
or who have reason to know that such property has been abandoned must
provide you with this statement. You may have reportable income or loss
because of such acquisition or abandonment. Gain or loss from an acquisition is
generally measured by the difference between your adjusted basis in the
property and the amount of your debt canceled in exchange for the property or,
if greater, the sale proceeds. If you abandoned the property, you may have
income from the discharge of indebtedness in the amount of the unpaid balance
of your canceled debt. The tax consequences of abandoning property depend
on whether or not you were personally liable for the debt. Losses on acquisitions
or abandonments of property held for personal use are not deductible. See Pub.
4681 for information about your tax consequences.
Property means any real property (such as a personal residence), any
intangible property, and tangible personal property that is held for investment or
used in a trade or business.
If you borrowed money on this property with someone else, each of you
should receive this statement.
Borrower’s taxpayer identification number (TIN). For your protection, this
form may show only the last four digits of your TIN (social security number
(SSN), individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN), adoption taxpayer
identification number (ATIN), or employer identification number (EIN)). However,
the issuer has reported your complete TIN to the IRS.
Account number. May show an account or other unique number the lender
assigned to distinguish your account.
Box 1. For a lender’s acquisition of property that was security for a loan, the
date shown is generally the earlier of the date title was transferred to the lender

or the date possession and the burdens and benefits of ownership were
transferred to the lender. This may be the date of a foreclosure or execution sale
or the date your right of redemption or objection expired. For an abandonment,
the date shown is the date on which the lender first knew or had reason to know
that the property was abandoned or the date of a foreclosure, execution, or
similar sale.
Box 2. Shows the debt (principal only) owed to the lender on the loan when the
interest in the property was acquired by the lender or on the date the lender first
knew or had reason to know that the property was abandoned.
Box 3. Reserved for future use.
Box 4. Shows the fair market value of the property. If the amount in box 4 is less
than the amount in box 2, and your debt is canceled, you may have cancellation
of debt income. If the property was your main home, see Pub. 523, available at
www.irs.gov/Pub523, to figure any taxable gain or ordinary income.
Box 5. Shows whether you were personally liable for repayment of the debt
when the debt was created or, if modified, when it was last modified.
Box 6. Shows the description of the property acquired by the lender or
abandoned by you. If “CCC” is shown, the form indicates the amount of any
Commodity Credit Corporation loan outstanding when you forfeited your
commodity.
Future developments. For the latest information about developments related to
Form 1099-A and its instructions, such as legislation enacted after they were
published, go to www.irs.gov/Form1099A.
Free File Program. Go to www.irs.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for no-cost
online federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or payment options.

