Attention:
Copy A of this form is provided for informational purposes only. Copy A appears in red,
similar to the official IRS form. The official printed version of Copy A of this IRS form is
scannable, but the online version of it, printed from this website, is not. Do not print and file
copy A downloaded from this website; a penalty may be imposed for filing with the IRS
information return forms that can’t be scanned. See part O in the current General
Instructions for Certain Information Returns, available at IRS.gov/Form1099, for more
information about penalties.
Please note that Copy B and other copies of this form, which appear in black, may be
downloaded and printed and used to satisfy the requirement to provide the information to
the recipient.
If you have 10 or more information returns to file, you may be required to file e-file. Go to
IRS.gov/InfoReturn for e-file options.
If you have fewer than 10 information returns to file, we strongly encourage you to e-file. If
you want to file them on paper, you can place an order for the official IRS information
returns, which include a scannable Copy A for filing with the IRS and all other applicable
copies of the form, at IRS.gov/EmployerForms. We’ll mail you the forms you request and
their instructions, as well as any publications you may order.
See Publications 1141, 1167, and 1179 for more information about printing these forms.

7575

VOID

CORRECTED

FILER’S name, street address, city or town, state or province, country,
ZIP or foreign postal code, and telephone number

1 Date of closing

OMB No. 1545-0997
Form

2 Gross proceeds

1099-S

(Rev. April 2025)

Proceeds From Real
Estate Transactions

For calendar year

$
FILER’S TIN

TRANSFEROR’S TIN

3 Address (including city, state, and ZIP code) or legal description

For
Internal Revenue
Service Center

TRANSFEROR’S name
4 Check here if the transferor received or will receive
property or services as part of the consideration
.

Street address (including apt. no.)
City or town, state or province, country, and ZIP or foreign postal code

5 Check here if the transferor is a foreign person
(nonresident alien, foreign partnership, foreign estate,
or foreign trust) . . . . . . . . . .

Account number (see instructions)

6 Buyer’s part of real estate tax

$
Form 1099-S (Rev. 4-2025)

Copy A

Cat. No. 64292E

www.irs.gov/Form1099S

For filing information,
Privacy Act, and
Paperwork Reduction
Act Notice, see the
General Instructions
for Certain
Information Returns.
www.irs.gov/Form1099

Department of the Treasury - Internal Revenue Service

Do Not Cut or Separate Forms on This Page — Do Not Cut or Separate Forms on This Page

CORRECTED (if checked)
FILER’S name, street address, city or town, state or province, country,
ZIP or foreign postal code, and telephone number

1 Date of closing

OMB No. 1545-0997
Form

2 Gross proceeds

1099-S

(Rev. April 2025)

Proceeds From Real
Estate Transactions

For calendar year

$
FILER’S TIN

TRANSFEROR’S TIN

3 Address (including city, state, and ZIP code) or legal description

Copy B
For Transferor

TRANSFEROR’S name
4 Transferor received or will receive property or services
as part of the consideration (if checked) . . . .

Street address (including apt. no.)
City or town, state or province, country, and ZIP or foreign postal code

5 If checked, transferor is a foreign person (nonresident
alien, foreign partnership, foreign estate, or foreign
trust)
. . . . . . . . . . . .
6 Buyer’s part of real estate tax

Account number (see instructions)

$
Form 1099-S (Rev. 4-2025)

(keep for your records)

www.irs.gov/Form1099S

This is important tax
information and is being
furnished to the IRS. If
you are required to file a
return, a negligence
penalty or other
sanction may be
imposed on you if this
item is required to be
reported and the IRS
determines that it has
not been reported.

Department of the Treasury - Internal Revenue Service

Instructions for Transferor
For sales or exchanges of certain real estate, the person responsible for closing
a real estate transaction must report the real estate proceeds to the IRS and
must furnish this statement to you. To determine if you have to report the sale or
exchange of your main home on your tax return, see the Instructions for
Schedule D (Form 1040). If the real estate was not your main home, report the
transaction on Form 4797, Form 6252, and/or the Schedule D for the
appropriate income tax form. If box 4 is checked and you received or will
receive like-kind property, you must file Form 8824.
Federal mortgage subsidy. You may have to recapture (pay back) all or part of
a federal mortgage subsidy if all the following apply.
• You received a loan provided from the proceeds of a qualified mortgage bond
or you received a mortgage credit certificate.
• Your original mortgage loan was provided after 1990.
• You sold or disposed of your home at a gain during the first 9 years after you
received the federal mortgage subsidy.
• Your income for the year you sold or disposed of your home was over a
specified amount.
This will increase your tax. See Form 8828 and Pub. 523.
Transferor’s taxpayer identification number (TIN). For your protection, this
form may show only the last four digits of your TIN (social security number
(SSN), individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN), adoption taxpayer
identification number (ATIN), or employer identification number (EIN)). However,
the issuer has reported your complete TIN to the IRS.
Account number. May show an account or other unique number the filer
assigned to distinguish your account.

Box 1. Shows the date of closing.
Box 2. Shows the gross proceeds from a real estate transaction, generally the
sales price. Gross proceeds include cash and notes payable to you, notes
assumed by the transferee (buyer), and any notes paid off at settlement. Box 2
does not include the value of other property or services you received or will
receive. See Box 4.
Box 3. Shows the address or legal description of the property transferred.
Box 4. If checked, shows that you received or will receive services or property
(other than cash or notes) as part of the consideration for the property
transferred. The value of any services or property (other than cash or notes) is
not included in box 2.
Box 5. If checked, shows that you are a foreign person (nonresident alien,
foreign partnership, foreign estate, or foreign trust).
Box 6. Shows certain real estate tax on a residence charged to the buyer at
settlement. If you have already paid the real estate tax for the period that
includes the sale date, subtract the amount in box 6 from the amount already
paid to determine your deductible real estate tax. But if you have already
deducted the real estate tax in a prior year, generally report this amount as
income on the “Other income” line of Schedule 1 (Form 1040). For more
information, see Pub. 523, Pub. 525, and Pub. 530.
Future developments. For the latest developments related to Form
1099-S and its instructions, such as legislation enacted after they were
published, go to www.irs.gov/Form1099S.
Free File Program. Go to www.irs.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for no-cost
online federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or payment options.

