Form

4506

Request for Copy of Tax Return
Do not sign this form unless all applicable lines have been completed.
Request may be rejected if the form is incomplete or illegible.
For more information about Form 4506, visit www.irs.gov/form4506.

(April 2025)
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

OMB No. 1545-0429

Tip: Get faster service: Online at www.irs.gov, Get Your Tax Record (Get Transcript) or by calling 1-800-908-9946 for specialized assistance. We
have teams available to assist. Note: Taxpayers may register to use Get your tax records and transcripts | Internal Revenue Service to view, print, or
download the following transcript types: Tax Return Transcript (shows most line items including Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) from your original Form
1040-series tax return as filed, along with any forms and schedules), Tax Account Transcript (shows basic data such as return type, marital status,
AGI, taxable income and all payment types), Record of Account Transcript (combines the tax return and tax account transcripts into one complete
transcript), Wage and Income Transcript (shows data from information returns we receive such as Forms W-2, 1099, 1098 and Form 5498), and
Verification of Non-filing Letter (provides proof that the IRS has no record of a filed Form 1040-series tax return for the year you request).
1a Name shown on tax return. If a joint return, enter the name shown first.

1b First social security number on tax return,
individual taxpayer identification number, or
employer identification number (see instructions)

2a If a joint return, enter spouse’s name shown on tax return.

2b Second social security number or individual
taxpayer identification number if joint tax return

3 Current name, address (including apt., room, suite, or inmate no.), city, state, and ZIP code (see instructions).

4 Previous address shown on the last return filed if different from line 3 (see instructions).

5 If the tax return is to be mailed to a third party (such as a mortgage company), enter the third party’s name, address, and telephone number.

Caution: If the tax return is being sent to the third party, ensure that lines 5 through 7 are completed before signing. (see instructions).
6
Tax return requested. Form 1040, 1120, 941, etc. and all attachments as originally submitted to the IRS, including Form(s) W-2,
schedules, or amended returns. Copies of Forms 1040, 1040A, and 1040EZ are generally available for 7 years from filing before they are
destroyed by law. Other returns may be available for a longer period of time. Enter only one return number. If you need more than one
type of return, you must complete another Form 4506.
Note: If the copies must be certified for court or administrative proceedings, check here .
7

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

Year or period requested. Enter the ending date of the tax year or period using the mm/dd/yyyy format (see instructions).

/

/

/

/

/

/

/

/

/

/

/

/

/

/

/

/

8

Fee. There is a $30 fee for each return requested. Full payment must be included with your request or it will
be rejected. Make your check or money order payable to “United States Treasury.” Enter your SSN, ITIN,
or EIN and “Form 4506 request” on your check or money order

a
b
c
9

$
Cost for each return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Number of returns requested on line 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total cost. Multiply line 8a by line 8b . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$
If we cannot find the tax return, we will refund the fee. If the refund should go to the third party listed on line 5, check here .

.

.

Caution: Do not sign this form unless all applicable lines have been complete
Signature of taxpayer(s). I declare that I am either the taxpayer whose name is shown on line 1a or 2a, or a person authorized to obtain the tax return
requested. If the request applies to a joint return, at least one spouse must sign. If signed by a corporate officer, 1 percent or more shareholder, partner,
managing member, guardian, tax matters partner, executor, receiver, administrator, trustee, or party other than the taxpayer, I certify that I have the authority to
execute Form 4506 on behalf of the taxpayer. Note: This form must be received by IRS within 120 days of the signature date.
Phone number of taxpayer on line
Signatory attests that he/she has read the attestation clause and upon so reading
1a or 2a

declares that he/she has the authority to sign the Form 4506. See instructions

Signature (see instructions)

Sign
Here Print/Type name
Spouse’s signature

Date
Title (if line 1a above is a corporation, partnership, estate, or trust)

Date

Print/Type name

For Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see page 2.

Cat. No. 41721E

Form 4506 (Rev. 4-2025)

Page 2

Form 4506 (Rev. 4-2025)
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code
unless otherwise noted.

Future Developments
For the latest information about Form 4506 and its
instructions, go to www.irs.gov/form4506.

General Instructions
Caution: Do not sign this form unless all applicable
lines, including lines 5 through 7, have been
completed.
Designated Recipient Notification. Internal
Revenue Code, Section 6103(c), limits disclosure
and use of return information received pursuant to
the taxpayer’s consent and holds the recipient
subject to penalties for any unauthorized access,
other use, or redisclosure without the taxpayer’s
express permission or request.
Taxpayer Notification. Internal Revenue Code,
Section 6103(c), limits disclosure and use of return
information provided pursuant to your consent and
holds the recipient subject to penalties, brought by
private right of action, for any unauthorized access,
other use, or redisclosure without your express
permission or request.
Purpose of form. Use Form 4506 to request a copy
of your tax return. You can also designate (on line 5)
a third party to receive the tax return.
How long will it take? It may take up to 75
calendar days for us to process your request.
Where to file. Attach payment and mail Form 4506
to the address below for the state you lived in, or the
state your business was in, when that return was
filed. There are two address charts: one for
individual returns (Form 1040 series) and one for all
other returns.
If you are requesting a return for more than one
year or period and the chart below shows two
different addresses, send your request based on the
address of your most recent return.

Chart for individual returns
(Form 1040 series)
If you filed an
individual return
and lived in:
Alabama, Arizona,
Arkansas, Florida,
Georgia, Louisiana,
Mississippi, New Mexico,
North Carolina,
Oklahoma, South
Carolina, Tennessee,
Texas, a foreign country,
American Samoa, Puerto
Rico, Guam, the
Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands,
the U.S. Virgin Islands, or
A.P.O. or F.P.O. address

Mail to:

Internal Revenue Service
RAIVS Team
Stop 6716 AUSC
Austin, TX 73301

Chart for all other returns
For returns not in
Form 1040 series,
if the address on
the return was in:

Mail to:

Connecticut, Delaware,
District of Columbia,
Georgia, Illinois, Indiana,
Kentucky, Maine,
Maryland,
Massachusetts,
Michigan, New
Hampshire, New Jersey,
New York, North
Carolina, Ohio,
Pennsylvania, Rhode
Island, South Carolina,
Tennessee, Vermont,
Virginia, West Virginia,
Wisconsin

Internal Revenue Service
RAIVS Team
Stop 6705 S-2
Kansas City, MO
64999

Alabama, Alaska,
Arizona, Arkansas,
California, Colorado,
Florida, Hawaii, Idaho,
Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana,
Minnesota, Mississippi,
Missouri, Montana,
Nebraska, Nevada, New
Mexico, North Dakota,
Oklahoma, Oregon,
South Dakota, Texas,
Utah, Washington,
Wyoming, a foreign
country, American
Samoa, Puerto Rico,
Guam, the
Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana
Islands, the U.S. Virgin
Islands, or A.P.O. or
F.P.O. address

Internal Revenue Service
RAIVS Team
Stop 6705 S-2
Kansas City, MO 64999

Alaska, California,
Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho,
Kansas, Michigan,
Montana, Nebraska,
Nevada, North Dakota,
Ohio, Oregon, South
Dakota, Utah,
Washington, Wyoming

Internal Revenue Service
RAIVS Team
P.O. Box 9941
Mail Stop 6734
Ogden, UT 84409

Partnerships. Generally, Form 4506 can be
signed by any person who was a member of the
partnership during any part of the tax period
requested on line 7.

Note: If you are Heir at law, Next of kin, or
Beneficiary you must be able to establish a material
interest in the estate or trust.

Internal Revenue Service
RAIVS Team
P.O. Box 9941
Mail Stop 6734
Ogden, UT 84409

Specific Instructions
Line 1b. Enter the social security number (SSN) or
individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN) for
the individual listed on line 1a, or enter the employer
identification number (EIN) for the business listed on
line 1a. For example, if you are requesting Form
1040 that includes Schedule C (Form 1040), enter
your SSN.
Line 3. Enter your current address. If you use a P.O.
box, include it on this line 3. If you are currently
incarcerated, include your inmate identification
number, name and address on this line 3.
Line 4. Enter the address shown on the last return
filed if different from the address entered on line 3.

Line 7. Enter the end date of the tax year or period
requested in mm/dd/yyyy format. This may be a
calendar year, fiscal year or quarter. Enter each
quarter requested for quarterly returns. Example:
Enter 12/31/2018 for a calendar year 2018 Form
1040 return, or 03/31/2017 for a first quarter Form
941 return.
Signature and date. Form 4506 must be signed and
dated by the taxpayer listed on line 1a or 2a. The
IRS must receive Form 4506 within 120 days of the
date signed by the taxpayer or it will be rejected.
Ensure that all applicable lines, including lines 5
through 7, are completed before signing.

!
▲

Corporations. Generally, Form 4506 can be
signed by: (1) an officer having legal authority to bind
the corporation, (2) any person designated by the
board of directors or other governing body, or (3)
any officer or employee on written request by any
principal officer and attested to by the secretary or
other officer. A bona fide shareholder of record
owning 1 percent or more of the outstanding stock
of the corporation may submit a Form 4506 but must
provide documentation to support the requester's
right to receive the information.

All others. See section 6103(e) if the taxpayer has
died, is insolvent, is a dissolved corporation, or if a
trustee, guardian, executor, receiver, or
administrator is acting for the taxpayer.

Note. If the addresses on lines 3 and 4 are different
and you have not changed your address with the
IRS, file Form 8822, Change of Address, or Form
8822-B,Change of Address or Responsible Party —
Business, with Form 4506.

Connecticut, Delaware,
District of Columbia,
Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
Kentucky, Maine,
Maryland,
Massachusetts,
Minnesota, Missouri,
New Hampshire, New
Jersey, New York,
Pennsylvania, Rhode
Island, Vermont, Virginia,
West Virginia, Wisconsin

Individuals. Copies of jointly filed tax returns may
be furnished to either spouse. Only one signature is
required. Sign Form 4506 exactly as your name
appeared on the original return. If you changed your
name, also sign your current name.

You must check the box in the
signature area to acknowledge you
have the authority to sign and request
CAUTION the information. The form will not be
processed and returned to you if the box is
unchecked.

Documentation. For entities other than individuals,
you must attach the authorization document. For
example, this could be the letter from the principal
officer authorizing an employee of the corporation or
the letters testamentary authorizing an individual to
act for an estate.
Signature by a representative. A representative
can sign Form 4506 for a taxpayer only if this
authority has been specifically delegated to the
representative on Form 2848, line 5a. Form 2848
showing the delegation must be attached to Form
4506.
Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act
Notice. We ask for the information on this form to
establish your right to gain access to the requested
return(s) under the Internal Revenue Code. We need
this information to properly identify the return(s) and
respond to your request. If you request a copy of a
tax return, sections 6103 and 6109 require you to
provide this information, including your SSN or EIN,
to process your request. If you do not provide this
information, we may not be able to process your
request. Providing false or fraudulent information
may subject you to penalties.
Routine uses of this information include giving it to
the Department of Justice for civil and criminal
litigation, and cities, states, the District of Columbia,
and U.S. commonwealths and possessions for use
in administering their tax laws. We may also
disclose this information to other countries under a
tax treaty, to federal and state agencies to enforce
federal nontax criminal laws, or to federal law
enforcement and intelligence agencies to combat
terrorism.
You are not required to provide the information
requested on a form that is subject to the Paperwork
Reduction Act unless the form displays a valid OMB
control number. Books or records relating to a form
or its instructions must be retained as long as their
contents may become material in the administration
of any Internal Revenue law. Generally, tax returns
and return information are confidential, as required
by section 6103.
The time needed to complete and file Form 4506
will vary depending on individual circumstances. The
estimated average time is: Learning about the law
or the form, 10 min.; Preparing the form, 16 min.;
and Copying, assembling, and sending the form
to the IRS, 20 min.
If you have comments concerning the accuracy of
these time estimates or suggestions for making
Form 4506 simpler, we would be happy to hear from
you. You can write to:
Internal Revenue Service
Tax Forms and Publications Division
1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526
Washington, DC 20224.
Do not send the form to this address. Instead, see
Where to file on this page.

