Form

8874-B

(Rev. December 2011)
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

Notice of Recapture Event for New Markets Credit

OMB No. 1545-2066

1

Name of qualified community development entity (CDE)

2

EIN of qualified CDE

3

Name of taxpayer with qualified equity investment subject to
recapture

4

TIN of taxpayer with qualified equity investment subject to
recapture

5

Date of qualified equity investment (mm/dd/yyyy)

6

Amount of qualified equity investment

7

Date of recapture event (mm/dd/yyyy)

8

Amount of New Markets Credit captured

9

Reason for recapture
CDE ceased to be a CDE
The proceeds of the investment ceased to be used in a
manner that satisfies the substantially-all requirement
The investment is redeemed or otherwise cashed out
by the CDE

10a Aggregate decrease in credit: Year 1
b Aggregate decrease in credit: Year 2
c Aggregate decrease in credit: Year 3
d Aggregate decrease in credit: Year 4
e Aggregate decrease in credit: Year 5
f Aggregate decrease in credit: Year 6
g Aggregate decrease in credit: Year 7
Under penalties of perjury, I declare that the recapture event identified above occurred on the date identified above.
▲

Please
Sign
Here

Date

Signature of authorized official of CDE
Type or print name

For Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see instructions.

Cat. No. 49312R

Form 8874-B (Rev. 12-2011)

Page 2

Form 8874-B (Rev. 12-2011)

General Instructions

Paperwork Reduction Act Notice

Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code
unless otherwise noted.

We ask for the information on this form to carry out the
Internal Revenue laws of the United States. You are
required to give us the information. We need it to ensure
that you are complying with these laws and to allow us to
figure and collect the right amount of tax.
You are not required to provide the information
requested on a form that is subject to the Paperwork
Reduction Act unless the form displays a valid OMB
control number. Books or records relating to a form or its
instructions must be retained as long as their contents
may become material in the administration of any Internal
Revenue law. Generally, tax returns and return
information are confidential, as required by section 6103.
The time needed to complete and file this form will vary
depending on individual circumstances. The estimated
average time is:
Recordkeeping . . . . . . . . . . 5 hr., 1 min.
Learning about the
law or the form . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 min.
Preparing and sending
the form to the IRS . . . . . . . . . . 17 min.
If you have comments concerning the accuracy of
these time estimates or suggestions for making this form
simpler, we would be happy to hear from you. You can
email us at: taxforms@irs.gov. Enter “Form 8874-B
Comment” on the subject line. Or write to: Internal
Revenue Service, Tax Products Coordinating Committee,
SE:W:CAR:MP:T:M:S, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW,
IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224. Do not send the form to
this address. Instead, see Where To File above.

Purpose of Form
CDEs must provide notification to any taxpayer holder of
a qualified equity investment (including prior holders) that
a recapture event has occurred. This form is used to
make the notification as required under Regulations
section 1.45D-1(g)(2)(i)(B).

Where To File
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service Center
Philadelphia, PA 19255-0549

When To File
The original signed form must be provided by the CDE to
the taxpayer holder no later than 60 days after the date
the CDE becomes aware of the recapture event. Send a
copy of the form to the IRS at the address listed above.
Keep a copy for your records.
A separate notice must be provided for each qualified
equity investment for which a recapture event occurred.

Additional Information
For more details, see Form 8874, New Markets Credit,
section 45D, Regulations section 1.45D-1, and
www.cdfifund.gov.

