Form

8885

Health Coverage Tax Credit

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

OMB No. 1545-0074

2021

▶ Attach to Form 1040, 1040-SR, 1040-NR, 1040-SS, or 1040-PR.

Attachment
Sequence No. 134
Recipient’s social security number

▶ Go to www.irs.gov/Form8885 for instructions and the latest information.

Name of recipient (if both spouses are recipients, complete a separate form for each spouse)

Before you begin: See Definitions and Special Rules in the instructions.

!
▲ Do not complete this form if you can be claimed as a dependent on someone else’s 2021 tax return.
CAUTION

Part I
1

Election To Take the Health Coverage Tax Credit

Check the box below for the first month in your tax year that you elect to take the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC). All of
the following statements must be true as of the first day of that month. You must also check the box for each month after your
election month that all of the following statements were true as of the first day of that month.
• You were an eligible trade adjustment assistance (TAA) recipient, alternative TAA (ATAA) recipient, reemployment TAA (RTAA)
recipient, or Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) payee; or you were a qualifying family member of an individual who
fell under one of the categories listed above when he or she passed away or with whom you finalized
a divorce.
• You and/or your family member(s) were covered by HCTC-qualified health insurance coverage for which you paid the entire
premiums, or your portion of the premiums, directly to your health plan or to “US Treasury-HCTC.”
• You were not enrolled in Medicare Part A, B, or C, or you were enrolled in Medicare but your family member(s) qualified for
the HCTC.
• You were not enrolled in Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP).
• You were not enrolled in the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP) or eligible to receive benefits under the
U.S. military health system (TRICARE).
• You were not imprisoned under federal, state, or local authority.
• Your or your spouse’s employer (or former employer) did not pay 50% or more of the cost of coverage.
• You did not receive a 100% COBRA premium reduction from your former employer or COBRA administrator.
January
July

Part II
2

February
August

March
September

April
October

May
November

June
December

Health Coverage Tax Credit

Enter the total amount paid directly to your health plan for HCTC-qualified health insurance coverage for
the months checked on line 1. See instructions. Do not include on line 2 any insurance premiums paid
to “US Treasury-HCTC” or any advance monthly payments made on your behalf as shown on Form
1099-H or any insurance premiums you paid for which you received a reimbursement of the HCTC
during the year by filing Form 14095 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

!
▲

2

You must attach the required documents listed in the instructions for any amounts included
on line 2. If you do not attach the required documents, your credit will be disallowed.

CAUTION

3

Enter the total amount of any Archer MSA or health savings accounts distributions used to pay for
HCTC-qualified health insurance coverage for the months checked on line 1 . . . . . . . . . .

4

Subtract line 3 from line 2. Enter the result, but not less than zero

.

3
4

5

Health Coverage Tax Credit. If you received the benefit of the advance monthly payment program
for any month not checked on line 1 or received a reimbursement of the HCTC during the year by
filing Form 14095 for any month not checked on line 1, see the instructions for line 5 for more details.
Otherwise, multiply the amount on line 4 by 72.5% (0.725). Enter the result here and on Schedule 3
(Form 1040), line 13c; Form 1040-SS, line 10; or Form 1040-PR, line 10 . . . . . . . . . .

5

For Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see your tax return instructions.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

Cat. No. 34641D

.

.

Form 8885 (2021)

