Form

8923

(Rev. November 2020)
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Name(s) shown on return

1

Mine Rescue Team Training Credit
OMB No. 1545-0123

▶ Attach to your tax return.
▶ Go to www.irs.gov/Form8923 for the latest information.

Identifying number

Total training program costs of qualified mine rescue team employees paid or incurred during the tax
year (up to $50,000 per qualified employee) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1

2

Multiply line 1 by 20% (0.20). See instructions for the adjustment you must make .

.

.

.

.

.

2

3

Mine rescue team training credit from partnerships and S corporations (see instructions) .

.

.

.

.

3

4

Add lines 2 and 3. Partnerships and S corporations, report this amount on Schedule K. All others,
report this amount on Form 3800, Part III, line 1u . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see instructions.

Cat. No. 37735E

.

4
Form 8923 (Rev. 11-2020)

Page 2

Form 8923 (Rev. 11-2020)

General Instructions

Specific Instructions

Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code unless
otherwise noted.

Line 2

For the latest information about developments related to Form
8923 and its instructions, such as legislation enacted after they
were published, go to www.irs.gov/Form8923.

In general, you must reduce your allowable training program
costs by the amount on line 2. This is required even if you
cannot take the full credit this year and must carry part of it
back or forward. If you capitalized any costs included on line 1,
reduce the amount capitalized by the credit on line 2
attributable to these costs.

What’s New

Line 3

The mine rescue team training credit is extended for qualified
mine rescue team training costs paid or incurred for tax years
beginning after 2017 and before 2021.

Enter the total mine rescue team training credit from:

Purpose of Form

• Schedule K-1 (1120-S), Shareholder’s Share of Income,
Deductions, Credits, etc., box 13 (code P).

Future Developments

Taxpayers who employ individuals as miners in U.S.
underground mines use Form 8923 to claim the mine rescue
team training credit. This credit applies to training program
costs paid or incurred for qualified mine rescue team
employees. This credit expired for tax years beginning after
2020. To find out if the mine rescue team training credit is
extended beyond 2020, go to www.irs.gov/Form8923.

Definitions
Training program costs. Taxpayers who employ individuals as
miners in U.S. underground mines can claim a credit of 20% of
the training program costs paid or incurred during the tax year
for training of qualified mine rescue team employees. The
maximum amount of training program costs that may be taken
into account annually for each qualified employee is $50,000.
The training costs include wages paid or incurred while the
qualified employee is attending a training program.
Qualified employee. A qualified mine rescue team employee is
any full-time employee of the taxpayer who is a miner eligible to
serve for more than 6 months of the year as a mine rescue team
member. The employee must have completed, at a minimum, an
initial 20-hour course of instruction, as prescribed by the Mine
Safety and Health Administration's Office of Educational Policy
and Development, or received at least 40 hours of refresher
training in such instruction. See 30 CFR section 49.8 for
refresher training requirements.
Wages. Wages qualifying for the credit generally have the same
meaning as wages subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax
Act (FUTA), but without regard to any dollar limit.

• Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), Partner’s Share of Income,
Deductions, Credits, etc., box 15 (code P); or

Partnerships and S corporations must always report the
above credit on line 3. All other filers can report the above
credits directly on Form 3800, Part III, line 1u, and don’t need to
file this form.
Paperwork Reduction Act Notice. We ask for the information
on this form to carry out the Internal Revenue laws of the United
States. You are required to give us the information. We need it
to ensure that you are complying with these laws and to allow
us to figure and collect the right amount of tax.
You are not required to provide the information requested on
a form that is subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act unless
the form displays a valid OMB control number. Books or
records relating to a form or its instructions must be retained as
long as their contents may become material in the
administration of any Internal Revenue law. Generally, tax
returns and return information are confidential, as required by
section 6103.
The time needed to complete and file this form will vary
depending on individual circumstances. The estimated burden
for business taxpayers filing this form is approved under OMB
control number 1545-0123 and is included in the estimates
shown in the instructions for their business income tax return.
If you have comments concerning the accuracy of these time
estimates or suggestions for making this form simpler, we would
be happy to hear from you. See the instructions for the tax
return with which this form is filed.

