9000

Form
(November 2021)
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

Alternative Media Preference

OMB No. 1545-0074

▶ Go to www.irs.gov/Form9000 for the latest information.

Attachment
Sequence No. 77
Social security number

Name of taxpayer electing to receive written communications in alternative media
Current address (number and street). If you have a P.O. box, see instructions.

▲

Fill in Your Address Only
if You Are Filing This
Form by Itself and Not
With Your Tax Return

Apt. number

City or town, state or province, country, and ZIP code. If a foreign address, also complete the spaces below.
Foreign country name

Foreign province/state/county

Foreign postal code

1 I elect to receive written communications from the IRS in the following accessible format. Check only one. Forms with more than
one box checked will not be processed.
00 Standard Print (Cancels prior election)
01 Large Print
02 Braille
03 Audio (MP3)
04 Plain Text File (TXT)
05 Braille Ready File (BRF)
Note: You will also receive a standard print copy.

▲

Sign Here Only if You
Are Filing This Form
by Itself and Not With
Your Tax Return

Your signature

For Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see the instructions.

Date

Cat. No. 37824Y

Form 9000 (11-2021)

This page intentionally left blank

Page 3

Form 9000 (11-2021)

Future Developments

Social Security Number (SSN)

For the latest developments related to Form 9000, such as
legislation enacted after it was published, go to
www.irs.gov/Form9000.

If you are including this form with your income tax return, the
SSN entered on this form should match the SSN listed on your
tax return. If you’re a nonresident or resident alien and you don’t
have and aren’t eligible to get an SSN, you must apply for an
individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN). To obtain an
ITIN, you must complete Form W-7, Application for IRS
Individual Taxpayer Identification Number. If you already have
an ITIN, enter it wherever your SSN is requested on your return.

General Instructions
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code unless
otherwise noted.
To download an accessible PDF version of Form 9000, go to
www.irs.gov/forms-pubs/accessible-irs-tax-products. To order a
large print or braille version of Form 9000, call 800-829-3676.
For additional information regarding IRS accessibility products
and services, visit www.irs.gov/forms-pubs/information-aboutthe-alternative-media-center.

Purpose of Form
Taxpayers with print disabilities can use Form 9000 to elect to
receive written communications from the IRS in an accessible
format. Once processed, the election will apply to written
communications that would otherwise be sent in standard print
format. This election may be changed by filing a new Form 9000
or calling 800-829-1040.
Making an election on this form will affect how the IRS
provides you written communications. Written communications
include formal letters and notices sent to individual taxpayers
about their income tax account, as well as other notices and
correspondence between taxpayers and the IRS. The IRS will
send a standard print copy of written communications in the
same envelope as the alternative media copy. Generally, any
attachments enclosed with the written communication will also
be provided in the alternative media.

Who Can File
Form 9000 can be filed by taxpayers with print disabilities to
indicate their preferred format for IRS written communications.
You may also change your election or request other forms in an
accessible format at any time when seeking services from the
IRS. Call 800-829-3676 or visit www.irs.gov/forms-pubs/
information-about-the-alternative-media-center for additional
information and assistance.

How To File

Address
Complete this section only if you are filing Form 9000 by itself
and not with your tax return. Enter your full address in the
appropriate sections. If you have a foreign address, also
complete the spaces below for the foreign country; foreign
province, state, or county; and foreign postal code. Don’t
abbreviate the country name. Follow the country’s practice for
entering the postal code and the name of the province, county,
or state.
P.O. box. Enter your box number only if your post office doesn’t
deliver mail to your home.
Current address different from address on tax return. The
IRS will not use this form to update your mailing address. If the
address you’re providing is different from the address on your
last income tax return, use Form 8822, Change of Address, to
notify the IRS of your new address.

Line 1
You can choose to receive written communications in one of the
following formats.
• Standard Print. Information conveyed visually and produced
on paper in the ordinary course of business. Select this option
to reverse a previous election to receive an accessible format.
• Large Print. An enlarged font, generally with a typeface of 18
points or larger. For certain nonessential text, large print will
consist of enlarged font with a typeface no smaller than 16
points.
• Braille. A system of touch reading and writing in which raised
dots represent the letters of the alphabet. Documents are
created in Grade 2 Interpoint Braille.
• Audio File. An MP3 file generated using text-to-speech
technology and delivered on a USB flash drive.

Attach Form 9000 to Form 1040, 1040-SR, 1040-NR, 1040-PR,
or 1040-SS and send it to the address shown in the instructions
for your return. If you e-file your tax return, you don’t need to file
the paper version of this form. Go to www.irs.gov/efile for more
information.

• Plain Text File. Unformatted text saved to a TXT file delivered
on a USB flash drive.

If you have already filed your return or if you are not required
to file a tax return, you may file Form 9000 by itself by mailing it
to the following address.

Select only one of the listed options. If you have already
requested to receive written communications in one of these
formats but need the IRS to provide a particular document in a
different format, call 800-829-1040.

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Kansas City, MO 64999-0002

Specific Instructions
Name
If you are including this form with your income tax return, enter
the name exactly as it appears on your tax return. If you’re
married and file a joint return, file a separate form for each
spouse making an election.

• Braille Ready File. A specialized digital text format used by a
braille display or refreshable braille device and delivered on a
USB flash drive.

Special assistance is available for persons with
If you are unable to complete your tax
TIP disabilities.
return because of a disability, you may be able to
obtain assistance from an IRS office, the Volunteer
Income Tax Assistance program, or the Tax Counseling for the
Elderly program sponsored by the IRS. For more information, go
to www.irs.gov/VITA. You may also be eligible to use free taxreturn-preparation-and-filing software through Free File. Go to
www.irs.gov/FreeFile.

Page 4

Form 9000 (11-2021)

Signature

Filing a Complaint

Complete this section only if you are filing Form 9000 by itself
and not with your tax return.

If you believe you have been discriminated against on the basis
of disability, you can submit a written complaint to:

Abatement of Penalties and Interest
If you believe you incurred penalties or interest because a notice
was not sent in the alternative media you requested using Form
9000, you can request an abatement using Form 843, Claim for
Refund and Request for Abatement. Qualifying taxpayers may
be able to obtain assistance with their abatement request from
the Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) or a Low Income Taxpayer
Clinic (LITC). TAS is an independent organization within the IRS
that helps taxpayers and protects taxpayer rights. TAS strives to
ensure that every taxpayer is treated fairly and that you know
and understand your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights.
TAS can help you if your tax problem is causing a financial
difficulty, you’ve tried and been unable to resolve your issue
with the IRS, or you believe an IRS system, process, or
procedure isn't working as it should. The service is free. If you
qualify for TAS assistance, you will be assigned to one advocate
who will work with you throughout the process and will do
everything possible to resolve your issue. Visit
www.taxpayeradvocate.irs.gov or call 877-777-4778.
LITCs are independent from the IRS and TAS. LITCs
represent individuals whose income is below a certain level and
who need to resolve tax problems with the IRS. LITCs can
represent taxpayers in audits, appeals, and tax collection
disputes before the IRS and in court. In addition, LITCs can
provide information about taxpayer rights and responsibilities in
different languages for individuals who speak English as a
second language. Services are offered for free or a small fee.
For more information or to find an LITC near you, go to
www.taxpayeradvocate.irs.gov/litcmap or Pub. 4134.

Nondiscrimination Notice
The IRS does not tolerate discrimination by its employees
against anyone because of age, color, disability, race, reprisal,
national origin, English proficiency, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, or status as a parent. This no-tolerance stance also
applies to anyone who volunteers or works with taxpayers as
part of any federally-assisted program or any federallyconducted program. If requested by a taxpayer, IRS employees
and staff/volunteers at one of the assisted program sites will
provide reasonable accommodation or language assistance.

Processing Time
If you are filing Form 9000 with your tax return, it will generally
be processed when the IRS processes the return. If you are
filing this form separate from your tax return, it may take up to
6–8 weeks to process. If you make the election to receive
written communications in an accessible format by calling the
IRS at 800-829-1040, it will be processed within 2 weeks. You
may contact the IRS at 800-829-1040 to obtain assistance
regarding any written communications sent in standard print
format before the request was processed, as well as the current
status of your account as a result of any such written
communications.

Operations Director, Civil Rights Division
Internal Revenue Service, Room 2413
1111 Constitution Ave. NW
Washington, DC 20224
If you prefer, you can email us at civil.rights.division@irs.gov.
You can also find and complete a complaint form at www.irs.gov/
about-irs/your-civil-rights-are-protected.
Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice. Sections
6001, 6011, 6012(a), 6109, and their regulations, as well as
section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and its regulations,
form the basis for our legal right to ask for the information on
this form. We will use the information to process your request to
receive future communications in a specified format. The reason
we need your name and social security number is to secure
proper identification. We require this information to gain access
to the tax information in our files and properly respond to your
request. You aren’t required to request communication in an
alternative format. If you do make such a request, you’re
required to provide the information requested on this form.
Failure to provide this information may prevent processing of
your request.
You aren’t required to provide the information requested on a
form that is subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act unless the
form displays a valid OMB control number. Books or records
relating to a form or its instructions must be retained as long as
their contents may become material in the administration of any
Internal Revenue law. Generally, tax returns and return
information are confidential, as required by section 6103.
However, we may give this information to the Department of
Justice for civil and criminal litigation, and to cities, states, the
District of Columbia, and U.S. commonwealths and possessions
to carry out their tax laws. We may also disclose this information
to other countries under a tax treaty, to federal and state
agencies to enforce federal nontax criminal laws, or to federal
law enforcement and intelligence agencies to combat terrorism.
The average time and expenses required to complete and file
this form will vary depending on individual circumstances. For
the estimated averages, see the instructions for your income tax
return.
If you have suggestions for making this form simpler, we
would be happy to hear from you. See the instructions for your
income tax return.

