Instructions for Form 1099-S
(Rev. April 2025)

Proceeds From Real Estate Transactions
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code unless
otherwise noted.

Future Developments

For the latest information about developments related to Form
1099-S and its instructions, such as legislation enacted after they
were published, go to IRS.gov/Form1099S.
You can get the general instructions at IRS.gov/
1099GeneralInstructions or go to IRS.gov/Form1099S.

Reminders

In addition to these specific instructions, you should also use the
current General Instructions for Certain Information Returns. Those
general instructions include information about the following topics.
• Who must file.
• When and where to file.
• Electronic reporting.
• Corrected and void returns.
• Statements to recipients.
• Taxpayer identification numbers (TINs).
• Backup withholding.
• Penalties.
• Other general topics.
E-filing returns The Taxpayer First Act of 2019 authorized the
Department of the Treasury and the IRS to issue regulations that
reduce the 250-return e-file threshold. T.D. 9972, published February
23, 2023, lowered the e-file threshold to 10 (calculated by
aggregating all information returns), effective for information returns
required to be filed on or after January 1, 2024. Go to IRS.gov/
InfoReturn for e-file options.
Information Reporting Intake System (IRIS). The IRS has
developed IRIS, an online portal for e-filing information returns. Go to
IRS.gov/IRIS for more information.
Continuous-use revision. Use these instructions for tax year 2025
and subsequent years until a superseding revision is issued.
Online PDF fillable copy. To ease statement furnishing
requirements, Copy B has been made fillable online in a PDF format
available at IRS.gov/Form1099S. You may fill out Copy B online and
send it to the recipients.

Specific Instructions

File Form 1099-S, Proceeds From Real Estate Transactions, to
report the sale or exchange of real estate.

Reportable Real Estate

Generally, you are required to report a transaction that consists in
whole or in part of the sale or exchange for money, indebtedness,
property, or services of any present or future ownership interest in
any of the following.
1. Improved or unimproved land, including air space.
2. Inherently permanent structures, including any residential,
commercial, or industrial building.
3. A condominium unit and its appurtenant fixtures and
common elements, including land.
4. Stock in a cooperative housing corporation (as defined in
section 216).
5. Any non-contingent interest in standing timber.

Mar 19, 2025

Sale or exchange. A sale or exchange includes any transaction
properly treated as a sale or exchange for federal income tax
purposes, even if the transaction is not currently taxable. For
example, a sale of a main home may be a reportable sale even
though the transferor may be entitled to exclude the gain under
section 121. But see Exceptions, later. Also, a transfer to a
corporation that qualifies for nonrecognition of gain under section
351 is a reportable exchange. In addition, a transfer under a land
contract is reportable in the year in which the parties enter into the
contract.
Ownership interest. An ownership interest includes fee simple
interests, life estates, reversions, remainders, and perpetual
easements. It also includes any previously created rights to
possession or use for all or part of any particular year (for example, a
leasehold, easement, or timeshare), if such rights have a remaining
term of at least 30 years, including any period for which the holder
may renew such rights, determined on the date of closing. For
example, a pre-existing leasehold on a building with an original term
of 99 years and a remaining term of 35 years on the closing date is
an ownership interest; however, if the remaining term is 10 years, it is
not an ownership interest. An ownership interest does not include
any option to acquire real estate. An ownership interest also includes
any contractual interest in a sale or exchange of standing timber for
a lump-sum payment that is fixed and not contingent.
Involuntary conversion. A sale of real estate under threat or
imminence of seizure, requisition, or condemnation is generally a
reportable transaction.
Timber. Report on Form 1099-S payments of timber royalties made
under a pay-as-cut contract, reportable under section 6050N. For
more information, see Announcement 90-129, 1990-48 I.R.B. 10.

Exceptions

The following is a list of transactions that are not reportable;
however, you may choose to report them. If you do, you are subject
to the rules in these instructions.
1. Sale or exchange of a residence (including stock in a
cooperative housing corporation) for $250,000 or less if you received
an acceptable written assurance (certification) from the seller that
such residence is the principal residence (within the meaning of
section 121) of the seller and the full amount of the gain on such sale
is excludable from gross income under section 121. If the
certification includes an assurance that the seller is married, the
preceding sentence shall be applied by substituting “$500,000” for
“$250,000.” If there are joint sellers, you must obtain a certification
from each seller (whether married or not) or file Form 1099-S for any
seller who does not make the certification. Also, the seller must
include in the certification that there has been no period of
nonqualified use (as that term is defined in section 121(b)(5)(C))
after December 31, 2008, and as required by section 6045(e)(5)(A)
(iii), that the full amount of the gain from the sale is excludable under
section 121. The certification must be signed by each seller under
penalties of perjury.
A sample certification format can be found in Rev. Proc. 2007-12,
2007-4 I.R.B. 354, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2007-04_IRB#RP-2007-12.html. The sample certification does not
include an assurance that there has been no period of nonqualified
use and an assurance that the full amount of the gain from the sale is
excludable under section 121. The seller must add the information,
as explained earlier.
You may get the certification any time on or before January 31 of
the year after the year of sale. You may rely on the certification and

Instructions for Form 1099-S (Rev. 4-2025) Catalog Number 27988X
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

not file or furnish Form 1099-S unless you know that any assurance
on the certification is incorrect.
You must keep the certification for 4 years after the year of sale.
You may keep the certification on paper, microfilm, microfiche, or in
an electronic storage system.
You are not required to obtain the certification. However, if you do
not obtain it, you must file and furnish Form 1099-S.
2. Any transaction in which the transferor is a corporation (or is
considered to be a corporation under Regulations section
1.6045-4(d)(2)). A corporation includes associations, joint-stock
companies, and insurance companies, as well as publicly traded
partnerships. Any transaction in which the transferor is a
governmental unit (including U.S. territories), including a foreign
government or an international organization; or an exempt volume
transferor. Under this rule, if there are exempt and nonexempt
transferors, you must file Form 1099-S only for the nonexempt
transferor.
An exempt volume transferor is someone who sold or exchanged
during the year, who expects to sell or exchange during the year, or
who sold or exchanged in either of the 2 previous years at least 25
separate items of reportable real estate to at least 25 separate
transferees. In addition, each item of reportable real estate must
have been held, at the date of closing, or will be held, primarily for
sale or resale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or
business. You are not required to report an exempt volume
transferor's transactions if you receive, under penalties of perjury, a
certification of exempt status required by Regulations section
1.6045-4(d)(3).
3. Any transaction that is not a sale or exchange, including a
bequest, a gift (including a transaction treated as a gift under section
1041), and a financing or refinancing that is not related to the
acquisition of real estate.
4. A transfer in full or partial satisfaction of a debt secured by
the property. This includes a foreclosure, a transfer in lieu of
foreclosure, or an abandonment.
5. A de minimis transfer for less than $600. A transaction is de
minimis if it can be determined with certainty that the total money,
services, and property received or to be received is less than $600,
as measured on the closing date. For example, if a contract for sale
provides for total consideration of “$1.00 plus other valuable
consideration,” the transfer is not a de minimis transfer unless you
can determine that the “other valuable consideration” is less than
$599, as measured on the closing date. The $600 rule applies to the
transaction as a whole, not separately to each transferor.
No reporting is required for the sale or exchange of an interest in
the following types of property, provided the sale is not related to the
sale or exchange of reportable real estate.
• An interest in surface or subsurface natural resources (for
example, water, ores, or other natural deposits) or crops, whether or
not such natural resources or crops are severed from the land. For
this purpose, the terms "natural resources" and "crops" do not
include standing timber. For timber royalties, see Timber, earlier.
• A burial plot or vault.
• A manufactured structure used as a dwelling that is manufactured
and assembled at a location different from that where it is used, but
only if such structure is not affixed, on the closing date, to a
foundation. This exception applies to the transfer of an unaffixed
mobile home that is unrelated to the sale or exchange of reportable
real estate.

Who Must File

Generally, the person responsible for closing the transaction, as
explained in (1) below, is required to file Form 1099-S. If no one is
responsible for closing the transaction, the person required to file
Form 1099-S is explained in (2), later. However, you may designate
the person required to file Form 1099-S in a written agreement, as
explained under (3), later.
1. If you are the person responsible for closing the transaction,
you must file Form 1099-S. If a Closing Disclosure or other
settlement form is used, as prescribed under the Dodd-Frank Wall

2

Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), and a
person is listed as the settlement agent on the Closing Disclosure or
other settlement statement, the person responsible for closing the
transaction is the person listed as the settlement agent on that
Closing Disclosure or other settlement statement. The Closing
Disclosure combines and replaces the HUD-1 Settlement Statement
and the final Truth-in-Lending (TIL) statement under the Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) of 1974, as amended, and the
Federal Truth in Lending Act, which is contained in title I of the
Consumer Credit Protection Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1601). The
form incorporates the information provided on the Closing
Disclosure. A Closing Disclosure includes any amendments,
variations, or substitutions that may be prescribed under Dodd-Frank
if any such form discloses the transferor and transferee, the
application of the proceeds, and the identity of the settlement agent
or other person responsible for preparing the form.
If the Closing Disclosure is not used, or no settlement agent is
listed, the person responsible for closing the transaction is the
person who prepares a Closing Disclosure that identifies the
transferor and transferee, reasonably identifies the real estate
transferred, and describes how the proceeds are to be or were
disbursed.
If no Closing Disclosure is used, or if two or more Closing
Disclosures are used, the person responsible for closing the
transaction is, in the following order:
a. The transferee's attorney who is present at the delivery of
either the transferee's note or a significant part of the cash proceeds
to the transferor or who prepares or reviews the preparation of the
documents transferring legal or equitable ownership,
b. The transferor's attorney who is present at the delivery of
either the transferee's note or a significant part of the cash proceeds
to the transferor or who prepares or reviews the preparation of the
documents transferring legal or equitable ownership, or
c. The disbursing title or escrow company that is most
significant in disbursing gross proceeds.
If there is more than one attorney described in (a) or (b), the one
whose involvement is most significant is the person considered
responsible for closing the transaction.
2. If no one is responsible for closing the transaction, as
explained in (1) above, the person responsible for filing is, in the
following order: (a) the mortgage lender, (b) the transferor's broker,
(c) the transferee's broker, or (d) the transferee.
For purposes of (2) above, apply the following definitions.
a. Mortgage lender means a person who lends new funds in
connection with the transaction, but only if the loan is at least
partially secured by the real estate. If there is more than one lender,
the one who lends the most new funds is the mortgage lender. If
several lenders advance equal amounts of new funds, and no other
person advances a greater amount of new funds, the mortgage
lender is the one who has the security interest that is most senior in
priority. Amounts advanced by the transferor are not treated as new
funds.
b. Transferor's broker means the broker who contracts with the
transferor and who is compensated for the transaction.
c. Transferee's broker means the broker who significantly
participates in the preparation of the offer to acquire the property or
who presents such offer to the transferor. If there is more than one
such person, the transferee's broker is the one who most
significantly participates in the preparation of the acquisition offer. If
there is no such person, the one who most significantly participates
in the presentation of the offer is the transferee's broker.
d. Transferee means the person who acquires the greatest
interest in the property. If no one acquires the greatest interest, the
transferee is the person listed first on the ownership transfer
documents.
3. Designation agreement. You can enter into a written
agreement at or before closing to designate who must file Form
1099-S for the transaction. The agreement will identify the person
responsible for filing if such designated person signs the agreement.

Instructions for Form 1099-S (Rev. 4-2025)

It is not necessary that all parties to the transaction (or that more
than one party) enter into the agreement.
You may be designated in the agreement as the person who must
file if you are the person responsible for closing the transaction (as
explained in (1) under Who Must File, earlier), the transferee's or
transferor's attorney (as explained in (1) under Who Must File,
earlier), the title or escrow company that is most significant in
disbursing gross proceeds, or the mortgage lender (as explained in
(2a) under Who Must File, earlier).
The designation agreement may be in any written form and may
be included on the Closing Disclosure. It must:
a. Identify by name and address the person designated as
responsible for filing,
b. Include the names and addresses of each person entering
into the agreement,
c. Be signed and dated by all persons entering into the
agreement,
d. Include the names and addresses of the transferor and
transferee, and
e. Include the address and any other information necessary to
identify the property.
Each person who signs the agreement must keep it for 4 years.
For each transaction, be sure that only one person is

TIP responsible for filing and that only one Form 1099-S is filed
for each transferor.

Employees, Agents, and Partners

If an employee, agent, or partner, acting within the scope of such
person's employment, agency, or partnership, participates in a real
estate transaction, only the employer, principal, or partnership (not
the employee, agent, or partner) may be the reporting person.
However, the participation of a person listed on the Closing
Disclosure as the settlement agent acting as an agent of another is
not attributed to the principal.

Foreign Transferors

Sales or exchanges involving foreign transferors are reportable on
Form 1099-S. For information on the transferee's responsibility to
withhold income tax when a U.S. real property interest is acquired
from a foreign person, see Pub. 515, Withholding of Tax on
Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Entities.

Multiple Transferors

For multiple transferors of the same real estate, you must file a
separate Form 1099-S for each transferor. At or before closing, you
must request from the transferors an allocation of the gross
proceeds among the transferors. The request and the response are
not required to be in writing. You must make a reasonable effort to
contact all transferors of whom you have knowledge. However, you
may rely on the unchallenged response of any transferor, and you
need not make additional contacts with other transferors after at
least one complete allocation is received (100% of gross proceeds,
whether or not received in a single response). If you receive the
allocation, report gross proceeds on each Form 1099-S accordingly.
You are not required to, but you may, report gross proceeds in
accordance with an allocation received after the closing date but
before the due date of Form 1099-S (without extensions). However,
you cannot report gross proceeds in accordance with an allocation
received on or after the due date of Form 1099-S (without
extensions).
If no gross proceeds are allocated to a transferor because no
allocation or an incomplete allocation is received, you must report
the total unallocated gross proceeds on the Form 1099-S made for
that transferor. If you do not receive any allocation or you receive
conflicting allocations, report on each transferor's Form 1099-S the
total unallocated gross proceeds.

Instructions for Form 1099-S (Rev. 4-2025)

Spouses. If the transferors were spouses at the time of closing,
who held the property as joint tenants, tenants by the entirety,
tenants in common, or as community property, treat them as a single
transferor. Only one Form 1099-S showing either spouse as the
transferor is required. You need not request an allocation of gross
proceeds if spouses are the only transferors. But if you receive an
uncontested allocation of gross proceeds from them, file Form
1099-S for each spouse according to the allocation. If there are other
transferors, you must make a reasonable effort to contact either
spouse to request an allocation.
Partnerships. If the property is transferred by a partnership, file
only one Form 1099-S for the partnership, not separate Forms
1099-S for each partner.

Multiple Assets Sold

If real estate is sold or exchanged and other assets are sold or
exchanged in the same transaction, report the total gross proceeds
from the entire transaction on Form 1099-S.

TINs

You must request the transferor's TIN no later than the time of
closing. The TIN request need not be made in a separate mailing.
Rather, it may be made in person, in a mailing that includes other
items, or electronically. The transferor is required to furnish their
complete, non-truncated TIN and to certify that the TIN is correct.
For U.S. persons (including U.S. resident aliens), you may request a
TIN on Form W-9, Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and
Certification. Foreign persons may provide their TIN to you on the
appropriate Form W-8. See part J in the current General Instructions
for Certain Information Returns.
Alternatively, you may provide a written statement to the
transferor similar to the following: “You are required by law to provide
(insert name of person responsible for filing) with your correct
taxpayer identification number. If you do not provide (insert name of
person responsible for filing) with your correct taxpayer identification
number, you may be subject to civil or criminal penalties imposed by
law.”
The solicitation must contain space for the name, address, and
TIN of the transferor, and a place to certify, under penalties of
perjury, that the TIN furnished is the correct TIN of the transferor.
The certification must read similar to: “Under penalties of perjury, I
certify that I am a U.S. person or U.S. resident alien and the number
shown on this statement is my correct taxpayer identification
number.”
If you use a Closing Disclosure, you may provide a copy of such
statement, appropriately modified to solicit the TIN, to the transferor.
Keep the Form W-9, W-8, or substitute form in your records for 4
years.

Separate Charge Prohibited

You may not charge your customers a separate fee for complying
with the Form 1099-S filing requirements. However, you may take
into account the cost of filing the form in setting the fees you charge
your customers for services in a real estate transaction.

Statements to Transferors

If you are required to file Form 1099-S, you must furnish a statement
to the transferor. Furnish a copy of Form 1099-S or an acceptable
substitute statement to each transferor. For more information about
the requirement to furnish a statement to the transferor, see part M in
the current General Instructions for Certain Information Returns.
You are not required to indicate on Form 1099-S that the

TIP transferor's (seller's) financing was federally subsidized.
Also, you are not required to enter the following.

• Both total gross proceeds and the allocated gross proceeds for a
multiple transferor transaction (enter either one or the other).
• An indication that the transferor may receive property or services
for an obligation having a stated principal amount.
3

• An indication that, in connection with a contingent payment
transaction, the transferor may receive gross proceeds that cannot
be determined with certainty under the regulations and is not
included in gross proceeds.
Truncating transferor's TIN on payee statements. Pursuant to
Regulations section 301.6109-4, all filers of this form may truncate a
transferor’s TIN (social security number (SSN), individual taxpayer
identification number (ITIN), adoption taxpayer identification number
(ATIN), or employer identification number (EIN)) on payee
statements. Truncation is not allowed on any documents the filer files
with the IRS. A filer’s TIN may not be truncated on any form. See part
J in the current General Instructions for Certain Information Returns.

Filer's Name, Address, and Telephone Number
Box

Enter the name, address, and telephone number of the person who
is filing Form 1099-S. The name and address must be the same as
the filer information reported on Form 1096.

Transferor's Name and Address Box

Enter the name and address of the seller or other transferor of the
real estate. If spouses are joint sellers, it is only necessary to enter
one name and the TIN for that person on the form, unless the
reporting person receives, at or prior to the time of closing, an
uncontested allocation of gross proceeds between them.

Account Number

The account number is required if you have multiple accounts for a
recipient for whom you are filing more than one Form 1099-S.
Additionally, the IRS encourages you to designate an account
number for all Forms 1099-S that you file. See part L in the current
General Instructions for Certain Information Returns.

Box 1. Date of Closing

Enter the closing date. On a Closing Disclosure, the closing date is
the Closing Disclosure date. If a Closing Disclosure is not used, the
closing date is the earlier of the date title transfers or the date the
economic burdens and benefits of ownership shift to the transferee.

Box 2. Gross Proceeds

Enter the gross proceeds from the sale or exchange of real estate.
Gross proceeds means any cash received or to be received for the
real property by or on behalf of the transferor, including the stated
principal amount of a note payable to or for the benefit of the
transferor and including a note or mortgage paid off at settlement. If
the transferee assumes a liability of the transferor or takes the
property subject to a liability, such liability is treated as cash and is
includible as part of gross proceeds. For a contingent payment
transaction, include the maximum determinable proceeds. Also see
Multiple Assets Sold, earlier.
If you are reporting a like-kind exchange of property for which no
gross proceeds are reportable, enter -0- (zero) in box 2 and enter an
“X” in the checkbox in box 4.
Gross proceeds do not include the value of property or services
received or to be received by, or on behalf of, the transferor, or
separately stated cash received for personal property, such as
draperies, rugs, or a washer and dryer.

4

Do not reduce gross proceeds by any expenses paid by the
transferor, such as sales commissions, deed preparation,
advertising, and legal expenses. If a Closing Disclosure is used for a
transfer of real estate for cash and notes only, gross proceeds will
generally be the contract sales price shown on that statement. If
other property or services were exchanged, see the box 4
instructions, later.
Contingent payment transaction. A contingent payment
transaction is one in which the receipt, by or on behalf of the
transferor, is subject to a contingency. The maximum determinable
proceeds means the greatest amount of gross proceeds possible if
all the contingencies are satisfied. If the maximum amount of gross
proceeds cannot be determined with certainty, the maximum
determinable proceeds are the greatest amount that can be
determined with certainty.

Box 3. Address (Including City, State, and ZIP
Code) or Legal Description

Enter the address of the property, including the city, state, and ZIP
code. If the address does not sufficiently identify the property, also
enter a legal description, such as section, lot, and block. For timber
royalties, enter “Timber royalties.” For lump-sum timber payments,
enter “Lump-sum timber payment.”

Box 4. Check Here if the Transferor Received or
Will Receive Property or Services as Part of the
Consideration

If the transferor received or will receive property (other than cash
and consideration treated as cash in figuring gross proceeds) or
services as part of the consideration for the property, enter an “X” in
the checkbox in box 4.

Box 5. Check Here if the Transferor Is a Foreign
Person (Nonresident Alien, Foreign Partnership,
Foreign Estate, or Foreign Trust)
If the transferor is a foreign person (nonresident alien, foreign
partnership, foreign estate, or foreign trust), enter an "X" in the
checkbox in box 5. See Form 8288 and its separate instructions for
tax withholding requirements for properties sold by a foreign
transferor.

Box 6. Buyer's Part of Real Estate Tax

For a real estate transaction involving a residence, enter the real
estate tax paid in advance that is allocable to the buyer. You do not
have to report an amount as allocable to the buyer for real estate
taxes paid in arrears. You may use the appropriate information
included on the Closing Disclosure, or comparable form, provided at
closing. For example, a residence is sold in a county where the real
estate tax is paid annually in advance. The seller paid real estate
taxes of $1,200 for the year in which the sale took place. The sale
occurred at the end of the 9th month of the real estate tax year.
Therefore, $300 of the tax paid in advance is allocated to the buyer,
by reference to the amount of real estate tax shown on the Closing
Disclosure as paid by the seller in advance, and is reported in box 6.
See Notice 93-4, 1993-1 C.B. 295.

Instructions for Form 1099-S (Rev. 4-2025)

