2025

Instructions for Forms
1094-B and 1095-B
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code unless
otherwise noted.

Future Developments

For the latest information about developments relating to Forms
1094-B, Transmittal of Health Coverage Information Returns, and
1095-B, Health Coverage, and their instructions, such as
legislation enacted after they were published, go to IRS.gov/
Form1094B and IRS.gov/Form1095B.

What’s New
Alternative manner of furnishing statements. Employers no
longer have to automatically send Form 1095-B to individuals.
The requirement for furnishing the statement is met if the entity
responsible for providing the statements provides clear,
conspicuous, and accessible notice on its website that an
individual may request a copy of their statement and the copy is
timely furnished. For this purpose, the statement is timely
furnished if provided to the individual no later than the later of
January 31, 2026, or 30 days after the date of the request. For
additional guidance, see Notice 2025-15 at IRS.gov/irb/
2025-11_IRB#NOT-2025-15.

Additional Information

For information relating to the Affordable Care Act, visit IRS.gov/
ACA.
For the final regulations relating to Form 1095-B reporting,
see Treasury Decision. 9660, 2014-13 I.R.B., at IRS.gov/IRB/
2014-13_IRB/AR08.html and Treasury Decision. 9970, 2023-02
I.R.B. 311, at IRS.gov/irb/2023-02_IRB.
For additional guidance and proposed regulatory changes
relating to Form 1095-B reporting, including the requirement to
solicit the taxpayer identification number (TIN) of each covered
individual for purposes of the reporting of health coverage
information, see Proposed Regulations section 1.6055-1(h) and
Regulations section 301.6724-1.
For additional information relating to reporting by providers of
minimum essential coverage, go to IRS.gov/Affordable-Care-Act/
Employers/Information-Reporting-by-Providers-of-MinimumEssential-Coverage.
For information relating to filing Forms 1094-B and 1095-B
electronically, visit IRS.gov/For-Tax-Pros/Software-Developers/
Information-Returns/Affordable-Care-Act-Information-Return-AirProgram.

General Instructions for Forms
1094-B and 1095-B
Purpose of Form

Form 1095-B is used to report certain information to the IRS and
to taxpayers about individuals who are covered by minimum
essential coverage. Eligibility for certain types of minimum
essential coverage can affect a taxpayer’s eligibility for the
premium tax credit.

Oct 22, 2025

Minimum essential coverage includes government-sponsored
programs, eligible employer-sponsored plans, individual market
plans, and other coverage the Department of Health and Human
Services designates as minimum essential coverage. Minimum
essential coverage is described in more detail under Who Must
File, later.
Tip: Minimum essential coverage doesn’t include coverage
consisting solely of excepted benefits. Excepted benefits include
vision and dental coverage not part of a comprehensive health
insurance plan, workers’ compensation coverage, and coverage
limited to a specified disease or illness.

Who Must File

Every person who provides minimum essential coverage to an
individual during a calendar year must file an information return
reporting the coverage. Filers will use Form 1094-B (transmittal)
to submit Forms 1095-B (returns).
Employers (including government employers) subject to the
employer shared responsibility provisions sponsoring
self-insured group health plans, including individual coverage
health reimbursement arrangements (HRAs), will generally
report information about the coverage in Part III of Form 1095-C
instead of on Form 1095-B. However, employers that offer
employer-sponsored self-insured health coverage to
nonemployees who enroll in the coverage may use Form
1095-B, rather than Form 1095-C, Part III, to report coverage for
those individuals and other family members. In general,
employers with 50 or more full-time employees (including
full-time equivalent employees) during the prior calendar year
are subject to the employer shared responsibility provisions. See
the Instructions for Forms 1094-C and 1095-C for more
information about who must file Forms 1094-C and 1095-C and
for more information about reporting coverage for
nonemployees. Small employers that aren’t subject to the
employer shared responsibility provisions sponsoring
self-insured group health plans will use Forms 1094-B and
1095-B to report information about covered individuals.

Insured coverage. Health insurance issuers and carriers must
file Form 1095-B for most health insurance coverage, including
individual market coverage and insured coverage sponsored by
employers. However, health insurance issuers and carriers don’t
report coverage under the Children’s Health Insurance Program
(CHIP), Medicaid, Medicare (including Medicare Advantage), or
the Basic Health Program provided through health insurance
companies. These types of coverage are reported by the
government sponsors of those programs.
In addition, health insurance issuers and carriers aren’t
required to file Form 1095-B to report coverage in individual
market qualified health plans that individuals enroll in through
Health Insurance Marketplaces. This coverage is generally
reported by Marketplaces on Form 1095-A. However, health
insurance issuers are required to file Form 1095-B to report on
coverage for employees obtained through the Small Business
Health Options Program (SHOP). For coverage in 2025 (filing in
2026), health insurance issuers and carriers are encouraged
(but not required) to report coverage in catastrophic health plans
enrolled in through the Marketplace.

Instructions for Form 1094-B and Form 1095-B (2025) Catalog Number 63017B
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

Eligible Employer-Sponsored Plans

Eligible employer-sponsored plans are minimum essential
coverage and include the following.
1. Group health insurance coverage for employees under the
following.
a. A governmental plan, such as the Federal Employees
Health Benefits program.
b. An insured plan or coverage offered in the small or large
group market within a state.
c. A grandfathered health plan offered in a group market.
2. A self-insured group health plan for employees. Generally,
an HRA, including an individual coverage HRA, is a
self-insured group health plan.
As noted earlier, minimum essential coverage doesn’t include
coverage consisting solely of excepted benefits. Excepted
benefits include vision and dental coverage not part of a
comprehensive health insurance plan, workers’ compensation
coverage, and coverage limited to a specified disease or illness.

4. The TRICARE program, except for the following options.
a. Coverage on a space-available basis in a military
treatment facility for individuals who aren’t eligible for
TRICARE coverage for private sector care.
b. Coverage for a line-of-duty-related injury, illness, or
disease for individuals who have left active duty.
5. Coverage administered by the Department of Veterans
Affairs that is:
a. Coverage consisting of the medical benefits package for
eligible veterans,
b. CHAMPVA, or
c. Comprehensive health care for children suffering from
spina bifida who are the children of Vietnam veterans
and veterans of covered service in Korea.
6. Coverage for Peace Corps volunteers.
7. The Nonappropriated Fund Health Benefits Program of the
Department of Defense.

Health insurance issuers or carriers will file Form 1095-B for
all insured employer coverage. Plan sponsors are responsible for
reporting self-insured employer coverage. Plan sponsors that are
employers subject to the employer shared responsibility
provisions must generally report the coverage on Form 1095-C
and other plan sponsors (such as employers not subject to the
employer shared responsibility provisions and sponsors of
multiemployer plans) report the coverage on Form 1095-B.

In general, the government agency sponsoring the program
will file Form 1095-B. The state agency that administers a
Medicaid or CHIP program will file Form 1095-B for coverage
under those programs. However, Medicaid and CHIP agencies
in U.S. territories (American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the U.S.
Virgin Islands) aren’t required to report Medicaid or CHIP
coverage on Form 1095-B.

Plan sponsors of self-insured employer coverage include:

When coverage under the Nonappropriated Fund Health
Benefits Program of the Department of Defense or TRICARE is
reported on Form 1095-B, Part I, line 8, filers should use code C
(government-sponsored program).

• Each participating employer (for its own covered individuals)
•
•
•

in a plan or arrangement established or maintained by more
than one employer;
The association, committee, joint board of trustees, or
similar group of representatives who establish or maintain a
multiemployer plan;
The employee organization for a plan or arrangement
maintained solely by an employee organization; and
Each participating employer (for its own employees) for a
plan or arrangement maintained by a Multiple Employer
Welfare Arrangement.

A government employer may designate another government
entity to report coverage of its employees. Generally, a
designated government entity will file Form 1095-B on behalf of a
government employer that sponsors or maintains a self-insured
group health plan for its employees only if that government
employer isn’t subject to the employer shared responsibility
provisions, which would require reporting on Form 1095-C. The
Instructions for Forms 1094-C and 1095-C contain further
information on reporting options for government entities.

Government-Sponsored Programs

The following government-sponsored programs are minimum
essential coverage.
1. Medicare Part A.
2. Medicaid, except for the following programs.
a. Optional coverage of family planning services.
b. Optional coverage of tuberculosis-related services.
c. Coverage of pregnancy-related services.
d. Coverage of medical emergency services.
e. Coverage of medically needy individuals.
f. Coverage of COVID-19 testing and diagnostic services.
3. The Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP).

2

Coverage designated as minimum essential coverage. The
Department of Health and Human Services has designated the
following health benefit plans or arrangements as minimum
essential coverage.
1. Medicare Part C (Medicare Advantage).
2. Refugee Medical Assistance.
3. Coverage provided to a business owner under a plan that is
eligible employer-sponsored coverage with respect to at
least one employee.
4. Coverage under a group health plan provided through
insurance regulated by a foreign government if:
a. A covered individual is physically absent from the
United States for at least 1 day during the month, or
b. A covered individual is physically present in the United
States for a full month and the coverage provides health
benefits within the United States while the individual is
outside the United States.
5. The Basic Health Program.
6. Coverage of pregnancy-related services that consists of full
Medicaid benefits.
7. Coverage under a section 1115 demonstration waiver
program.
8. Specific programs listed at CMS.gov/CCIIO/Programs-andInitiatives/Health-Insurance-Market-Reforms/MinimumEssential-Coverage.html (click on the link for “Approved
Plans”).
Providers of these and later designated programs will file
Form 1095-B. The sponsor for the Basic Health Program is the
state government agency administering the program.
Instructions for Forms 1094-B and 1095-B (2025)

Coverage in More Than One Minimum Essential
Coverage Plan or Program

If, for any month, an individual is covered by more than one
minimum essential coverage plan or program that is provided by
the same provider, the provider is required to report only one of
the plans or programs for that month. For example, if an
individual is covered by a self-insured major medical plan and an
HRA provided by the same employer for a month, the employer
is the provider of both types of coverage and is therefore
required to report the coverage of the individual under only one
of the arrangements for that month.
Generally, reporting is also not required for an individual’s
minimum essential coverage for a month if that minimum
essential coverage is offered only to individuals who are also
covered by other minimum essential coverage for which
reporting is required. For example, an insurance company
offering a Medicare or TRICARE supplement for which only
individuals enrolled in Medicare or TRICARE are eligible is not
required to report coverage under the Medicare or TRICARE
supplement.
Under this rule, a state Medicaid agency is not required to
report Medicaid coverage for which only individuals enrolled in
other minimum essential coverage, such as employer-sponsored
coverage or a qualified health plan, are eligible.
This second rule applies to eligible employer-sponsored
coverage only if both types of coverage (the supplemental
coverage and the eligible employer-sponsored coverage for
which section 6055 reporting is required) are offered by the
same employer. For example, if an employer offers both an
insured group health plan and an HRA that an employee is
eligible for if the employee enrolls in the insured group health
plan, and an employee enrolls in both, the employer is not
required to report the employee’s coverage under the HRA for
the months in which the employee is enrolled in both plans. If,
however, an individual is covered by an HRA sponsored by one
employer, including an individual coverage HRA, and a non-HRA
group health plan sponsored by another employer (such as
spousal coverage) or an individual is covered by an individual
coverage HRA, each employer (or the health insurance issuer or
carrier, if the plan is insured) must report the coverage the
employer (or issuer or carrier) provides.
For more information on the reporting of supplemental
coverage, including the rule on when different entities are treated
as a single employer for purposes of the second rule, see
Proposed Regulations section 1.6055-1(d)(2) and (3).

When To File

Generally, the return and transmittal form must be filed with the
IRS on or before February 28 if filing on paper (March 31 if filing
electronically) of the year following the calendar year of
coverage.
You will meet the requirement to file if the form is properly
addressed and mailed on or before the due date. If the regular
due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, file by the
next business day. A business day is any day that isn’t a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
For forms filed in 2026 reporting coverage provided in
calendar year 2025, Forms 1094-B and 1095-B are required to
be filed by March 2, 2026, or March 31, 2026, if filing
electronically.
See Statements Furnished to Individuals, later, for information
on when Form 1095-B must be furnished.

Extension of Time To File

You can get an automatic 30-day extension of time to file by
completing Form 8809 and filing it with the IRS on or before the
Instructions for Forms 1094-B and 1095-B (2025)

due date for the Forms 1094-B and 1095-B. Form 8809 may be
submitted on paper or through the FIRE System either as a fill-in
form or an electronic file. No signature or explanation is required
for the extension. However, you must file Form 8809 by the due
date of the returns in order to get the 30-day extension. Under
certain hardship conditions, you may apply for an additional
30-day extension. See Form 8809 and its instructions for more
information about extensions of time to file.
How to apply. File Form 8809 as soon as you know that a
30-day extension of time to file is needed. Follow the instructions
on Form 8809, which provide information on where to fax or mail
your Form 8809. You can also submit the extension request
online through the FIRE System. You are encouraged to submit
requests using the online fill-in form. See Pub. 1220 for more
information on filing online or electronically. See the instructions
for Form 8809 for more information.

Where To File

Send all information returns filed on paper to the following.
If your principal business,
office or agency, or legal
residence in the case of an
individual, is located in:
▼

Use the following address:
▼

Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas,
Connecticut, Delaware, Florida,
Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana,
Maine, Massachusetts,
Mississippi, New Hampshire,
New Jersey, New Mexico, New
York, North Carolina, Ohio,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island,
Texas, Vermont, Virginia,
West Virginia

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Center
Austin, TX 73301

Alaska, California, Colorado,
District of Columbia, Hawaii,
Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
Kansas, Maryland, Michigan,
Minnesota, Missouri, Montana,
Nebraska, Nevada, North
Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon,
South Carolina, South Dakota,
Tennessee, Utah, Washington,
Wisconsin, Wyoming

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Center
P.O. Box 219256
Kansas City, MO 64121-9256

If your legal residence or principal place of business or
principal office or agency is outside the United States, file with
the Department of the Treasury, Internal Revenue Service
Center, Austin, TX 73301.

How To File
Filing Paper Returns With the IRS
Shipping and mailing. If you’re filing on paper, send the forms
to the IRS in a flat mailing (not folded) and don’t staple or
paperclip the forms together. If you’re sending many forms, you
may send them in conveniently sized packages. On each
package, write your name, and number the packages
consecutively. Place Form 1094-B in package number one and a
copy of Form 1094-B in each additional package. Postal
regulations require forms and packages to be sent by first-class
mail. Returns filed with the IRS must be printed in landscape
format.
3

Keeping copies. Generally, keep copies of information returns
you filed with the IRS or maintain the ability to reconstruct the
data for at least 3 years, from the due date of the returns.

Electronic Filing
If you’re required to file 10 or more
information returns, you must file
electronically. The 10-or-more requirement
applies in the aggregate to certain information returns.
Accordingly, a filer may be required to file fewer than 10 Forms
1094-B and 1095-B, but still have an electronic filing obligation
based on other kinds of information returns filed. The electronic
filing requirement does not apply if you request and receive a
hardship waiver. The IRS encourages you to file electronically
even if you’re filing fewer than 10 returns.
Waiver. To receive a waiver from the required filing of
information returns electronically, submit Form 8508. You are
encouraged to file Form 8508 at least 45 days before the due
date of the return but no later than the due date of the return. The
IRS doesn’t process waiver requests until January 1 of the
calendar year the returns are due. You can’t apply for a waiver for
more than 1 tax year at a time. If you need a waiver for more than
1 tax year, you must reapply at the appropriate time each year.
An approved waiver for original returns will cover corrections only
for the same type of return. If you receive an approved waiver,
don’t send a copy of it to the Service Center where you file your
paper returns. Keep the waiver for your records only.
If you are required to file electronically but fail to do so, and
you don’t have an approved waiver, you may be subject to a
penalty of up to $340 per return unless you establish reasonable
cause. However, you can file up to 10 returns on paper; those
returns will not be subject to a penalty for failure to file
electronically.
Pub. 5165, Guide for Electronically Filing Affordable Care Act
(ACA) Information Returns for Software Developers and
Transmitters, specifies the communication procedures,
transmission formats, business rules, and validation procedures,
and explains when a return will be accepted, accepted with
errors, or rejected for returns filed electronically for calendar year
2025 through the ACA Information Return (AIR) system. To
develop software for use with the AIR system, software
developers, transmitters, and issuers, including employers filing
their own Forms 1094-B and 1095-B, should use the guidelines
provided in Pub. 5165, along with the Extensible Markup
Language (XML) Schemas published on IRS.gov.
Reminder. The formatting directions in these instructions are for
the preparation of paper returns. When filing forms electronically,
the formatting set forth in the XML Schemas and Business Rules
published on IRS.gov must be followed rather than the formatting
directions in these instructions. For more information regarding
electronic filing, see Pubs. 5164 and 5165.

Substitute Returns Filed With the IRS

See Pub. 5223, General Rules and Specifications for Affordable
Care Act Substitute Forms 1095-A, 1094-B, 1095-B, 1094-C,
and 1095-C, for specifications for private printing of substitute
information returns. You may not request special consideration.
Only forms that conform to the official form and the specifications
in Pub. 5223 are acceptable for filing with the IRS. Substitute
returns filed with the IRS must be printed in landscape format.

Void Box

Don’t use this box on Form 1095-B.

Corrected Form 1095-B

For information about filing corrections for electronically filed
forms, see section 7.1 of Pub. 5165. A corrected return should
be filed as soon as possible after an error is discovered. File
corrected returns as follows.
• Form 1095-B: Fully complete Form 1095-B and enter an “X”
in the “CORRECTED” checkbox. File a Form 1094-B
Transmittal with the corrected Forms 1095-B. (Do not file a
corrected Form 1094-B.)
• Recipient’s statement: A copy of the corrected Form 1095-B
must be furnished to the individual who received the original
Form 1095-B.
Note. Enter an “X” in the “CORRECTED” checkbox only when
correcting a Form 1095-B previously filed with the IRS. If you are
correcting a Form 1095-B that was previously furnished to a
recipient, but not filed with the IRS, write, print, or type
“CORRECTED” on the new Form 1095-B furnished to the
recipient.
Tip: See the next chart for examples of errors and step-by-step
instructions for filing corrected returns.
Original Form 1095-B Filed With the IRS and Furnished to the
Recipient
IF any of the following are
incorrect ...

THEN ...

Name of responsible individual
(Part I)

1. Fully complete a new Form
1095-B and enter an “X” in the
“CORRECTED” checkbox.
2. File a Form 1094-B Transmittal
with the corrected Form 1095-B.
3. Furnish a copy of the corrected
Form 1095-B to the person
identified as the responsible
individual.

Origin of the Health Coverage
(Part I)

Social security number (SSN) or
taxpayer identification number
(TIN) (Part I)
Information About Certain
Employer-Sponsored Coverage
(Part II)
Issuer or Other Coverage
Provider (Part III)
Covered Individuals (Part IV)

Caution: You must file a corrected return to report retroactive
changes in coverage.
Example 1. Tim enrolls in health insurance with Ace
Insurance Company in January 2025. Tim fails to pay the
premiums for November and December 2025 and January 2026.
Ace sends Tim a Form 1095-B on January 30, 2026, reporting
coverage for every month in 2025. On February 2, 2026, Ace
cancels Tim’s coverage effective November 3, 2025. Ace must
send Tim a corrected Form 1095-B reporting that Tim was
covered only for January through October 2025. If Ace filed the
Form 1095-B with the IRS, it must file a corrected Form 1095-B
with the IRS reporting coverage only for January through
October 2025.
Example 2. Sharon is enrolled in Medicaid for January
through September 2025. The Medicaid agency files a Form
1095-B and furnishes a statement to Sharon reporting coverage

4

Instructions for Forms 1094-B and 1095-B (2025)

for January through September 2025. In April 2026, Sharon is
approved for Medicaid coverage beginning on November 3,
2025. The Medicaid agency must file a corrected Form 1095-B
with the IRS and furnish Sharon a corrected statement reporting
coverage for January through September and November through
December 2025.

Statements Furnished to Individuals

Filers of Form 1095-B must furnish a copy by March 2, 2026, to
the person identified as the "responsible individual" on the form
for coverage in 2025. However, a provider of minimum essential
coverage will be treated as timely furnishing Form 1095-B to
individuals if the form is made available through the provider’s
website and certain conditions are met. See Alternative manner
of furnishing statements, later.
The “responsible individual” is the person who, based on a
relationship to the covered individuals, the primary name on the
coverage, or some other circumstances, should receive the
statement. Generally, the statement recipient should be the
primary taxpayer, if that person is known. A statement recipient
may be a parent if only minor children are covered individuals, a
primary subscriber for insured coverage, an employee or former
employee in the case of employer-sponsored coverage, a
uniformed services sponsor for TRICARE, or another individual
who should receive the statement. Filers may, but aren’t required
to, furnish a statement to more than one recipient.
Copies of Form 1095-B furnished to recipients may include a
truncated SSN or other TIN, if applicable, of the statement
recipient and covered individuals by showing only the last four
digits of the SSN or other TIN and replacing the first five digits
with asterisks (*) or Xs. Copies of Form 1095-B furnished to
recipients may also truncate the employer identification number
(EIN) of an employer reported in Part II, if any. The filer’s EIN may
not be truncated on the statement furnished to recipients.
Truncation of TINs, including EINs, is not allowed on returns filed
with the IRS.
In general, statements must be furnished on paper by mail (or
hand delivered), unless the recipient affirmatively consents to
receive the statement in an electronic format. If mailed, the
statement must be sent to the recipient’s last known permanent
address, or, if no permanent address is known, to the recipient’s
temporary address.
Alternative manner of furnishing statements. A provider of
minimum essential coverage will be treated as timely furnishing
Form 1095-B to individuals if the provider uses the alternative
manner of furnishing statements described in Regulations
section 1.6055-1(g). If the provider is an applicable large
employer (as defined under Regulations section 54.4980H-1(a)
(4)) that offers employer-sponsored self-insured health
coverage, the employer may use the alternative manner of
furnishing for statements to non-full-time employees and
nonemployees who are enrolled in the self-insured health
coverage. See Who Must File, earlier. To use the alternative
manner of furnishing statements, the following conditions must
be met. In addition:
• The provider must provide clear and conspicuous notice, in
a location on its website that is reasonably accessible to all
responsible individuals, stating that responsible individuals
may receive a copy of their statement upon request. The
notice must include an email address, a physical address to
which a request for a statement may be sent, and a
telephone number that responsible individuals may use to
contact the provider with any questions. A notice posted on
a provider’s website must be written in plain, non-technical
terms and with letters of a font size large enough, including
any visual clues or graphical figures, to call to a viewer’s
attention that the information pertains to tax statements
reporting that individuals had health coverage. For example,
Instructions for Forms 1094-B and 1095-B (2025)

a provider’s website provides a clear and conspicuous
notice if it (1) includes a statement on the main page—or a
link on the main page, reading “Tax Information,” to a
secondary page that includes a statement—in capital
letters, “IMPORTANT HEALTH COVERAGE TAX
DOCUMENTS;” (2) explains how responsible individuals
may request a copy of Form 1095-B, Health Coverage (or,
for an applicable large employer member that sponsors a
self-insured group health plan and makes a return in
accordance with Regulations section 1.6055-1(f)(2)(i),
explains how non-full-time employees and nonemployees
who are enrolled in the plan may request a copy of Form
1095-C, Employer-Provided Health Insurance Offer and
Coverage); and (3) includes the provider’s email address,
mailing address, and telephone number;

• The provider must post the notice on its website by March 3,
2025, and retain the notice in the same location on its
website through October 15, 2025; and

• The provider must furnish the statement to a requesting

responsible individual within 30 days of the date the request
is received. To satisfy this requirement, the provider may
furnish the statement electronically if the recipient
affirmatively consents.

Effective January 31, 2024, employers no longer have to
automatically send Form 1095-B to individuals. Employers can
now post a notice on its website informing individuals that they
may request a copy of the statement. The requirement to provide
the statement is met as long as the notice satisfies the
requirements set forth and above is:
• Clear, conspicuous, and reasonably accessible to all
responsible individuals;

• Timely posted, which for tax year 2025 is by March 2, 2026,
and retained until October 15 of the filing year; and

• Furnished to the individual no later than the later of January
31, 2026, or 30 days after the date of the request.
For additional guidance, see IRS.gov/irb/
2025-11_IRB#NOT-2025-15.

Consent to furnish statement electronically. Except as
provided below, a filer is required to obtain affirmative consent to
furnish a statement electronically. The requirement to obtain
affirmative consent to furnish a statement electronically ensures
that statements are sent electronically only to individuals who
are able to access them. The consent must relate specifically to
receiving Form 1095-B electronically. A recipient may consent on
paper or electronically, such as by email. If consent is on paper,
the recipient must confirm the consent electronically. A
statement may be furnished electronically by email or by
informing the recipient how to access the statement on the filer’s
website. Statements reporting coverage under an expatriate
health plan, however, may be furnished electronically unless the
recipient has explicitly refused to consent to receive the
statement in an electronic format.
Extension of time to furnish statement to recipients. The
due date for furnishing Form 1095-B is automatically extended
from February 2, 2026, to March 2, 2026. Thus, no additional
extensions will be granted.

Substitute Statements to Recipients

If you aren’t using the official IRS form to furnish statements to
recipients, see Pub. 5223, which explains the requirements for
format and content of substitute statements to recipients. You
may develop them yourself or buy them from a private printer.

Information Reporting Penalties

A provider of minimum essential coverage that fails to comply
with the information reporting requirements may be subject to
5

penalties for failure to file correct information returns and failure
to furnish correct payee statements. For returns required to be
filed and statements required to be furnished for 2025 tax year
returns, the following apply.
• The penalty for failure to file a correct information return is
$340 for each return for which the failure occurs, with the
total penalty for a calendar year not to exceed $4,098,500.
• The penalty for failure to provide a correct payee statement
is $340 for each statement for which the failure occurs, with
the total penalty for a calendar year not to exceed
$4,098,500.
• There are lower annual maximums applicable to small
businesses with average gross receipts of $5 million or less.
• The penalty per return increases to $680 with no annual
maximum limitation if there is intentional disregard of the
requirement to file the returns and furnish payee statements.

Waiver of Penalties
The penalties may be waived if the failure was due to reasonable
cause and not willful neglect. See section 6724, Regulations
section 301.6724-1, and Regulations section 1.6055-1(h). For
additional information, see Pub. 1586.

Specific Instructions for Form 1094-B
Line 1. Enter the filer’s complete name.
Line 2. Enter the filer’s nine-digit employer identification number
(EIN). If you don’t have an EIN, you may apply for one online at
IRS.gov/EIN. You may also apply by faxing or mailing Form SS-4,
Application for Employer Identification Number, to the IRS. See
the Instructions for Form SS-4 and Pub. 1635 for more
information.
Lines 3 and 4. Enter the name and telephone number,
including area code, of the person to contact who is responsible
for answering any questions from the IRS regarding the filing of
or information reported on Form 1094-B or 1095-B.
Lines 5–8. Enter the filer’s complete address where all
correspondence will be sent. If mail is delivered to a P.O. box and
not a street address, enter the box number instead of the street
address.
Line 9. Enter the total number of Forms 1095-B that are
transmitted with Form 1094-B.

Specific Instructions for Form 1095-B
Part I—Responsible Individual
Line 1. Enter the name of the responsible individual (statement
recipient). See the description of who is a “responsible
individual” under Statements Furnished to Individuals, earlier.
Line 2. Enter the nine-digit social security number (SSN) of the
responsible individual (111-11-1111). If the responsible
individual doesn’t have an SSN, enter the responsible
individual’s other TIN. No SSN or other TIN is required if the
responsible individual isn’t a covered individual identified in Part
IV. See Statements Furnished to Individuals, earlier, for
information on truncating the SSN or other TIN.

Line 8. Enter the letter identifying the Origin of the Health
Coverage. See Who Must File, earlier, to determine which types
of coverage fall under each category listed below.
A. Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP).
B. Employer-sponsored coverage, except for an individual
coverage HRA.
C. Government-sponsored program.
D. Individual market insurance.
E. Multiemployer plan.
F. Other designated minimum essential coverage.
G. Employer-sponsored coverage that is an individual coverage
HRA.
Line 9. For 2025, leave this line blank.

Part II—Information About Certain
Employer-Sponsored Coverage

This part is completed only by issuers or carriers of insured
group health plans, including coverage purchased through the
SHOP.

Tip: Insurance companies entering code A or B on line 8 will
complete Part II. Employers reporting self-insured group health
plan coverage on Form 1095-B, except for an individual
coverage HRA, enter code B on line 8, but don’t complete Part II.
If you entered code B for self-insured coverage, skip Part II and
go to Part III.
Lines 10–15. Enter the name, EIN, and complete mailing
address for the employer sponsoring the coverage. If mail isn’t
delivered to the street address and the employer has a P.O. box,
enter the box number instead of the street address. See
Statements Furnished to Individuals, earlier, for information on
truncating the employer’s EIN. If the employer is a member of a
controlled group, enter information for the specific controlled
group member that is the covered employee’s employer. If the
coverage is provided through an association or a Multiple
Employer Welfare Arrangement, enter information for the
participating employer of the covered employee. Don’t complete
Part II if the coverage is provided through a multiemployer plan.

Part III—Issuer or Other Coverage Provider
Lines 16–22. Enter your name, EIN, and complete mailing
address. The provider of the coverage is the issuer or carrier of
insured coverage, sponsor of a self-insured employer plan,
government agency providing government-sponsored coverage,
or other coverage sponsor. Enter on line 18 the telephone
number that an individual seeking additional information may call
to speak to a person.

Part IV—Covered Individuals
Column (a). Enter the name of each covered individual.
Column (b). Enter the nine-digit SSN or other TIN for each
covered individual (111-11-1111). The field may be left blank if
the covered individual doesn’t have a TIN. See Statements
Furnished to Individuals, earlier, for information on truncating the
SSN or other TIN.
Column (c). Enter a date of birth (YYYY/MM/DD) for the
covered individual only if an SSN or other TIN isn’t entered in
column (b).

Line 3. Enter the responsible individual’s date of birth
(YYYY/MM/DD) only if line 2 is blank.

Column (d). Check this box if the individual was covered for at
least 1 day per month for all 12 months of the calendar year.

Lines 4–7. Enter the complete mailing address of the
responsible individual. If mail isn’t delivered to the street address
and the responsible individual has a P.O. box, enter the box
number instead of the street address.

Column (e). If the individual wasn’t covered for all 12 months,
check the applicable box(es) for the month(s) in which the
individual was covered for at least 1 day.
If there are more than six covered individuals, complete this
information for the additional covered individuals on Part IV,

6

Instructions for Forms 1094-B and 1095-B (2025)

Continuation Sheet(s). Do not count the Continuation Sheet(s)
as additional Forms 1095-B in the count of forms submitted with
the accompanying Form 1094-B.

their contents may become material in the administration of any
Internal Revenue law. Generally, tax returns and return
information are confidential, as required by section 6103.

Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice. We ask
for the information on these forms to carry out the Internal
Revenue laws of the United States and the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act. Our legal right to ask for the information
on this form is Internal Revenue Code section 6055 and its
regulations. Providing false or fraudulent information may subject
you to penalties. We may disclose this information to the
Department of Justice for civil or criminal investigation, and to
cities, states, and the District of Columbia for use in
administering their tax laws. We may also disclose this
information to other countries under a tax treaty, to federal and
state agencies to enforce federal nontax criminal laws, or to
federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies to combat
terrorism.
You aren’t required to provide the information requested on a
form that is subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act unless the
form displays a valid OMB control number. Books or records
relating to a form or its instructions must be retained as long as

The time needed to complete the following forms will vary
depending on individual circumstances. The estimated average
time is:

Instructions for Forms 1094-B and 1095-B (2025)

Form 1094-B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10 min.

Form 1095-B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1 min.

If you have comments concerning the accuracy of these time
estimates or suggestions for making this form simpler, we would
be happy to hear from you. You can send us comments from
IRS.gov/FormComments. Or you can write to the Internal
Revenue Service, Tax Forms and Publications Division, 1111
Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224. Don’t
send the form to this office.

7

