2025

Instructions for Forms
1099-QA and 5498-QA
Distributions From ABLE Accounts and ABLE Account Contribution Information
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code
unless otherwise noted.

Future Developments

For the latest information about developments related to
Forms 1099-QA and 5498-QA and their instructions, such
as legislation enacted after they were published, go to
IRS.gov/Form1099QA or IRS.gov/Form5498QA.
You can also get the General Instructions for Certain
Information Returns at IRS.gov/1099GeneralInstructions.

What's New
Contributions. Contributions (including any contributions
from a section 529 program, but not including
contributions of the designated beneficiary’s
compensation income made under section 529A(b)(2)(B))
made to your ABLE account in 2025 can’t exceed
$19,000. Also, see Contributions, later, for more
information.

Reminders

In addition, you should also use the 2025 General
Instructions for Certain Information Returns. Those
general instructions include information about the
following topics.
• Who must file.
• When and where to file.
• Electronic reporting.
• Corrected and void returns.
• Statements to recipients.
• Taxpayer identification numbers (TINs).
• Backup withholding.
• Penalties.
• Other general topics.
Continuous-use form and instructions. Form 1099-QA
and its instructions, contained herein, have been
converted from an annual revision to continuous use. Both
the form and instructions will be updated as needed. For
the most recent version, go to IRS.gov/Form1099QA.
E-filing Forms 1099-QA and 5498-QA. The Taxpayer
First Act of 2019 authorized the Department of the
Treasury and the IRS to issue regulations that reduce the
250-return e-file threshold. T.D. 9972, published February
23, 2023, lowered the e-file threshold to 10 (calculated by
aggregating all information returns), effective for
information returns required to be filed on or after January
1, 2024. Go to IRS.gov/IRIS for e-file information.
Online fillable forms. Due to the very low volume of
paper Forms 1099-QA and 5498-QA received and
processed by the IRS each year, these forms have been
Mar 19, 2025

converted to online fillable PDFs. You may fill out these
forms, available at IRS.gov/Form1099QA and at IRS.gov/
Form5498QA, and send Copy B to each recipient.

Qualified ABLE Program

A qualified ABLE program is a program established and
maintained by a state, agency, or instrumentality of a
state:
• Under which an ABLE account may be established for a
blind or disabled individual whose blindness or disability
occurred before age 26 (an “eligible individual”), who is
the owner and designated beneficiary of the account;
• Which permits contributions to such ABLE account to
pay for the qualified disability expenses of the account’s
designated beneficiary;
• Which limits a designated beneficiary to one ABLE
account; and
• That meets the other requirements of section 529A.

Contributions. A program is not treated as a qualified
ABLE program unless it provides that no contribution will
be accepted:
1. Unless it is in cash; or
2. Except in the case of a rollover or
program-to-program transfer from an ABLE account, if
such contribution would result in aggregate contributions
from all contributors to the ABLE account for the tax year
exceeding the sum of:
a. $19,000 (in 2025), plus
b. In the case of additional contributions made by
certain employed ABLE account designated beneficiaries,
an amount up to the lesser of:
i. The designated beneficiary’s compensation for the
tax year, or
ii. The poverty line amount for a one-person
household (Community Services Block Grant Act (42
U.S.C. 9902)). For 2025, the allowable amount is:
$15,060 in the continental United States,
$18,810 in Alaska, and
$17,310 in Hawaii.
Note. The amount is based on P.L. 115-97, section
11024(a)(1)(B)(ii)(II), which allows for “an amount equal to
the poverty line for a one-person household, as
determined for the calendar year preceding the calendar
year in which the tax year begins.” For more information,
go to aspe.hhs.gov/topics/poverty-economic-mobility/
poverty-guidelines.

Instructions for Form 1099QA (2025) Catalog Number 67557E
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

The contribution limit is determined using the
poverty guideline applicable in the state of the
CAUTION designated beneficiary’s residence, rather than
the guideline applicable in the state in which the
designated beneficiary’s ABLE account is established, or
elsewhere.

which the transferor ABLE account is closed upon
completion of the transfer, or of part or all of the balance to
an ABLE account of another eligible individual who is a
member of the family of the former designated beneficiary,
without any intervening distribution or deemed distribution
to the designated beneficiary.

An employed designated beneficiary is not eligible for
the increased contribution limit for the tax year if any
contribution is made on behalf of the employee to a
defined contribution plan (within the meaning of section
414(i)), a section 403(b) plan, or a section 457(b) plan.
The designated beneficiary is responsible for maintaining
adequate records to document the eligibility for increased
contributions. See T.D. 9923, available at IRS.gov/IRB/
2020-50_IRB#TD-9923.

Specific Instructions for Form
1099-QA

!

Separate accounting. A qualified ABLE program must
provide separate accounting for each designated
beneficiary.
Limited investment direction. A qualified ABLE
program provides that a designated beneficiary may,
directly or indirectly, direct the investment of any
contributions to the program (or any earnings on it) no
more than two times in any calendar year.
Pledging of interest as security. A program is not
treated as a qualified ABLE program if it allows any
interest in the program, or any portion of it, to be used as
security for a loan.
Excess aggregate contributions. A qualified ABLE
program must provide adequate safeguards to prevent
aggregate contributions on behalf of a designated
beneficiary in excess of the limit established by the state
under the state's qualified tuition program (QTP).
Aggregate contributions include contributions to any prior
ABLE account maintained by any qualified ABLE program
for the same designated beneficiary or any prior
designated beneficiary.
Return of excess contributions and excess aggregate
contributions. A qualified ABLE program must return an
excess contribution or excess aggregate contribution
(including all net income attributable to that excess
contribution or excess aggregate contribution) to the
person who made the contribution on or before the due
date (including extensions) for the federal income tax
return of the designated beneficiary for the tax year in
which the excess contribution or excess aggregate
contribution was made.
Rollovers and program-to-program transfers. For
purposes of these instructions, a “rollover” means a
contribution to an ABLE account of the designated
beneficiary (or of an eligible individual who is a member of
the family of the designated beneficiary) of all or a portion
of an amount withdrawn from the designated beneficiary’s
ABLE account, provided the contribution is made within
60 days of the date of the withdrawal and, in the case of a
rollover to the designated beneficiary’s ABLE account, no
rollover has been made to an ABLE account of the
designated beneficiary within the prior 12 months.
A “program-to-program transfer” means the direct
transfer of the entire balance of an ABLE account to an
ABLE account of the same designated beneficiary in
2

Who Must File

Any state or its agency or instrumentality that establishes
and maintains a qualified ABLE program must file a Form
1099-QA, Distributions From ABLE Accounts, with the IRS
on or before February 28 of the following year for each
ABLE account from which any distribution was made or
which was terminated during the calendar year. The filing
may be done by either an officer or employee of the state,
its agency, or its instrumentality having control of the
qualified ABLE program, or the officer’s or employee’s
designee.
Do not file Form 1099-QA for a change in the name of
the designated beneficiary on an ABLE account if the new
designated beneficiary is an eligible individual and a
member of the family of the former designated beneficiary.
For these purposes, a “member of the family” means a
sibling, whether by blood or by adoption, and includes a
brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister, half-brother, or
half-sister. If the new designated beneficiary is not an
eligible individual for the tax year or is not a member of the
family of the former beneficiary, the Form 1099-QA filed
with respect to the former designated beneficiary should
include in box 1 the fair market value (FMV) of the assets
in the ABLE account on the date on which the change is
made to the new designated beneficiary.
Note. The due date of February 28 remains February 28
even in leap years; the due date does not become
February 29.

Statements to Recipients

If you are required to file Form 1099-QA, you must also
furnish a statement to the designated beneficiary of the
ABLE account reporting distributions, and to each
contributor who received a returned contribution (plus
earnings) attributable to the calendar year. Furnish a copy
of Form 1099-QA or an acceptable substitute statement to
each recipient, but only with regard to the amounts paid to
that recipient. See part M in the current General
Instructions for Certain Information Returns.
Truncating recipient’s TIN on payee statements.
Pursuant to Regulations section 301.6109-4, all filers of
this form may truncate a recipient’s TIN (social security
number (SSN), individual taxpayer identification number
(ITIN), adoption taxpayer identification number (ATIN), or
employer identification number (EIN)) on recipient
statements. Truncation is not allowed on any documents
the filer files with the IRS. A payer's TIN may not be
truncated on any form. See part J in the current General
Instructions for Certain Information Returns.

Instructions for Forms 1099-QA and 5498-QA (2025)

Payer's Name and TIN

Enter the name, address, and TIN of the payer. For a
program established and maintained by a state that uses
the EIN of the state, enter the name of the state on the first
name line and the name of the program on the second
name line.

Recipient's Name and TIN

List the designated beneficiary as the recipient unless you
are reporting a returned excess contribution to the
contributor. In that case, list the contributor as the
recipient. Enter the TIN of the applicable recipient.

Account Number

The IRS encourages you to designate an account number
for all Forms 1099-QA that you file. See part L in the
current General Instructions for Certain Information
Returns.

Box 1. Gross Distribution

Enter the gross distribution from the ABLE account during
the calendar year. The gross distribution includes
amounts distributed that the designated beneficiary
intends to roll over to another ABLE account, but does not
include program-to-program transfers. See Rollovers and
program-to-program transfers, earlier. On a Form
1099-QA for a contributor, enter in box 1 the amount(s) of
excess contributions returned plus earnings thereon.

Box 2. Earnings

To determine the earnings on the gross distribution
reported in box 1, see Regulations section 1.529A-3(c).

Box 3. Basis

Enter the portion of the distribution that constitutes the
return of investment in the account. The amount of the
gross distribution minus the earnings portion of that
distribution is the portion of the distribution that constitutes
the return of investment in the account. This amount is
computed by subtracting the amount in box 2 from the
amount in box 1.

Box 4. Program-to-Program Transfer Checkbox

Check this box if a program-to-program transfer was made
from this ABLE account to another ABLE account during
the calendar year. See Rollovers and program-to-program
transfers, earlier.

Box 5. ABLE Account Terminated Checkbox

Check the box if the ABLE account terminated during the
calendar year.

Box 6. Other Than Designated Beneficiary
Checkbox

Check this box if this form is being filed with respect to a
distribution to, or for the benefit of, someone other than
the designated beneficiary of the ABLE account, for
example, a distribution of an excess contribution to the
contributor.

Specific Instructions for Form
5498-QA
Who Must File

Any state, or its agency, or instrumentality that establishes
and maintains a qualified ABLE program must file, for
each ABLE account, a Form 5498-QA, ABLE Account
Contribution Information, with the IRS on or before June 1,
2026. The filing may be done by either an officer or
employee of the state, its agency, or its instrumentality
having control of the qualified ABLE program, or the
officer’s or employee’s designee.

Statements to Beneficiaries

If you are required to file Form 5498-QA with the IRS, you
must also furnish a statement to the designated
beneficiary by March 15. However, if the filing due date
falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, you will be
considered to have timely filed if you file by the next day
that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday.
Furnish a copy of Form 5498-QA or an acceptable
substitute statement to each beneficiary. For more
information, see part M in the 2025 General Instructions
for Certain Information Returns.
Truncating beneficiary’s TIN on payee statements.
Pursuant to Regulations section 301.6109-4, all filers of
this form may truncate a beneficiary’s TIN (social security
number (SSN), individual taxpayer identification number
(ITIN), adoption taxpayer identification number (ATIN), or
employer identification number (EIN)) on payee
statements. Truncation is not allowed on any documents
the filer files with the IRS. An issuer's TIN may not be
truncated on any form. See part J in the 2025 General
Instructions for Certain Information Returns.

Account Number

The IRS encourages you to designate an account number
for all Forms 5498-QA that you file. See part L in the 2025
General Instructions for Certain Information Returns.

Box 1. ABLE Contributions

Enter the total amount of contributions made to the ABLE
account in 2025. Include all cash contributions, section
529 QTP to ABLE rollovers, and QTP to ABLE
program-to-program transfers. Total contributions do not
include any excess contributions returned by the due date
of the designated beneficiary's 2025 return (including
extensions). Do not include the amount of any rollover or
program-to-program transfer. If no contributions were
made in 2025, enter zero in this box.

Box 2. ABLE to ABLE Rollovers

Enter the amount of any rollover or program-to-program
transfer to this ABLE account from another ABLE account
in 2025. Do not include any contributions from a section
529 program. See Rollovers and program-to-program
transfers, earlier.

Box 3. Cumulative Contributions

You may, but are not required to, enter the amount of
cumulative contributions to this ABLE account. This

Instructions for Forms 1099-QA and 5498-QA (2025)

3

amount is the total of amounts contributed since the
establishment of the ABLE account, including amounts
contributed to an ABLE account for the same designated
beneficiary that was rolled over, or directly transferred (in a
program-to-program transfer), to the current ABLE
account.

Box 4. Fair Market Value

Enter the FMV of the account as of December 31, 2025.

Box 5. Account Opened Checkbox

Check the box if the ABLE account was opened in 2025.

Box 6. Basis of Eligibility

!

You must enter one code letter in box 6.

CAUTION

Report the basis of the designated beneficiary's
eligibility using the codes below.
• Code A—Eligibility established under section 529A(e)
(1)(A), SSDI, Title II SSA.
• Code B—Eligibility established under section 529A(e)
(1)(A), SSI, Title XVI SSA.
• Code C—Designated beneficiary is the subject of a
disability certification filed with the IRS for 2025.

Box 7. Type of Disability Code

!

Report only one primary code number for the type of
disability for which the designated beneficiary is receiving
ABLE qualifying benefits. If more than one code applies,
select the most significant code.
• Code 1—Developmental Disorders: Autistic Spectrum
Disorder, Asperger’s Disorder, Developmental Delays and
Learning Disabilities.
• Code 2—Intellectual Disability: May be reported as
mild, moderate, or severe intellectual disability.
• Code 3—Psychiatric Disorders: Schizophrenia, Major
depressive disorder, Post-traumatic stress disorder
(PTSD), Anorexia nervosa, Attention deficit/hyperactivity
disorder (AD/HD), Bipolar disorder.
• Code 4—Nervous Disorders: Blindness, Deafness,
Cerebral Palsy, Muscular Dystrophy, Spina Bifida,
Juvenile-onset Huntington's disease, Multiple sclerosis,
Severe sensorineural hearing loss, Congenital cataracts.
• Code 5—Congenital Anomalies: Chromosomal
abnormalities, including Down Syndrome, Osteogenesis
imperfecta; Xeroderma pigmentosum; Spinal muscular
atrophy; Fragile X syndrome; Edwards syndrome.
• Code 6—Respiratory Disorders: Cystic Fibrosis.
• Code 7—Other: Includes Tetralogy of Fallot,
Hypoplastic left heart syndrome, End-stage liver disease,
Juvenile-onset rheumatoid arthritis, Sickle cell disease,
Hemophilia, and any other disability not listed under
codes 1 through 6.

The following information will only be used for
aggregate reporting purposes as required by law.

CAUTION

4

Instructions for Forms 1099-QA and 5498-QA (2025)

