Instructions for Form 1118
(Rev. December 2025)

(Use with the December 2025 revision of Form 1118, the December 2021 revision of
separate Schedule I, the December 2020 revision of separate Schedule J, the
December 2018 revision of separate Schedule K, and the December 2025 revision of
Schedule L.)
Foreign Tax Credit—Corporations
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code
unless otherwise noted.

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments related to
Form 1118 and its instructions, such as legislation
enacted after they were published, go to IRS.gov/
Form1118.

What’s New
New section 960(d)(4). Section 960(d)(4) was added to
the Internal Revenue Code (“Code”) by section 70312(b)
of Public Law 119-21, 139 Stat. 72 (July 4, 2025),
commonly known as the One, Big, Beautiful Bill Act
(“OBBBA”). New section 960(d)(4) disallows a foreign tax
credit under section 901 for 10% of any foreign income
taxes paid or accrued (or deemed paid under section
960(b)(1)) with respect to section 959(a) distributions, to
the extent the previously taxed earnings and profits were
excluded under section 959(a) by reason of a section
951A inclusion in a U.S. shareholder’s tax year ending
after June 28, 2025.
Form changes. There is a change in the manner in
which special cases of the sourcing of income are
reported on Schedule A. See the specific instructions for
Schedule A, column 1(b).
There is a change in the manner in which Schedule B,
Part I is completed. Column 2(b) has been split into two
columns. Add to new column 2(b)(2) the previously taxed
earnings and profits (PTEP) code attributable to
distributions of PTEP. See the specific instructions for
Schedule B, Part I, column 2(b).
There is a change in the manner in which taxes
attributable to section 951A PTEP distributions are
reported on Schedule E, Part I. See the specific
instructions for Schedule E, Part I, columns 12 through 16.
On Schedule G, new line H provides a reduction for
disallowed taxes under section 960(d)(4). See the specific
instructions for Schedule G, line H.

Reminders
Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax Foreign Tax
Credit. Form 1118 is not used to determine foreign tax
credits for purposes of calculating the Corporate
Alternative Minimum Tax (CAMT) under section 55,
enacted under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, P.L.
117-169. Corporate taxpayers are required to use the
Dec 19, 2025

revised Form 4626 to determine foreign tax credits for
purposes of calculating the CAMT tax liability, if any, under
section 55.

General Instructions
Purpose of Form

Use Form 1118 to compute a corporation’s foreign tax
credit for certain taxes paid or accrued to foreign countries
or U.S. territories. See Taxes Eligible for a Credit, later.

Who Must File

Any corporation that elects the benefits of the foreign tax
credit under section 901 must complete and attach Form
1118 to its income tax return. In addition, even if a
corporation has not elected to credit foreign taxes, it must
complete and attach Form 1118, Schedule A, and
Schedule J (Form 1118) to its income tax return if it has
any additions to, reductions to, or recapture of any new or
existing overall foreign loss, overall domestic loss, or
separate limitation loss accounts. See Regulations section
1.904(f)-1(b).
Also, even if a taxpayer has not elected to credit foreign
taxes, if it has a foreign tax redetermination under section
905(c), it must complete and attach Schedule L (Form
1118) to its income tax return for the tax year in which the
foreign tax redetermination occurs. Schedule L must be
submitted irrespective of whether the foreign tax
redetermination changed the taxpayer’s U.S. tax liability.
Also, individuals must complete and attach a Form
1118 to their income tax return if they make the election
under section 962 to be taxed at corporate rates on the
amount they must include in gross income under sections
951(a) and 951A from their controlled foreign corporations
in order to be eligible to claim a foreign tax credit based on
their share of foreign income taxes paid or accrued by the
controlled foreign corporation. See sections 960 and 962
and Pub. 514 for more information on how to complete
Form 1118 in this case.

When To Make the Election

The election to claim the foreign tax credit for any tax year
may be made or changed at any time before the end of a
special 10-year period described in section 6511(d)(3) (or
section 6511(c) if the period is extended by agreement).
The election to claim a deduction in lieu of a credit for
foreign income taxes may be made or changed at any

Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025) Catalog Number 10905I
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

time before the end of the period prescribed by section
6511(a) or 6511(c). See Regulations section 1.901-1(d).

indicate the separate category with respect to which you
are completing a given Form 1118.

Computer-Generated Form 1118

The corporation may submit a computer-generated Form
1118 and schedules if they conform to the IRS version.
However, if a software program is used, it must be
approved by the IRS for use in filing substitute forms. This
ensures the proper placement of each item appearing on
the IRS version. For more information, see Pub. 1167,
General Rules and Specifications for Substitute Forms
and Schedules.

How To Complete Form 1118
Important: Complete a separate Schedule A;
Schedule B, Parts I and II; Schedules C through G;
Schedule I (Form 1118); Schedule K (Form 1118); and
Schedule L (Form 1118), Parts I, II, III, and V for each
applicable separate category of income. See Categories
of Income, later. Complete Schedule B, Part III;
Schedule H; Schedule J (Form 1118); and Schedule L
(Form 1118), Part IV, only once.
• Use Schedule A to compute the corporation’s income
or loss before adjustments for each applicable category of
income.
• Use Schedule B to determine the total foreign tax
credit after certain reductions.
• Use Schedule C to compute taxes deemed paid by the
domestic corporation filing the return with respect to
inclusions under section 951(a)(1).
• Use Schedule D to compute taxes deemed paid by the
domestic corporation filing the return with respect to
inclusions under section 951A.
• Use Schedule E to compute taxes deemed paid by the
domestic corporation filing the return with respect to
distributions of previously taxed income (also referred to
as previously taxed earnings and profits (PTEP)).
• Use Schedule G to report required reductions of tax
paid, accrued, or deemed paid.
• Use Schedule H to apportion deductions that cannot
be allocated to an item or class of income identified on
Schedule A.
• Use Schedule I (a separate schedule) to compute
reductions of taxes paid, accrued, or deemed paid on
foreign oil and gas income.
• Use Schedule J (a separate schedule) to compute
adjustments to separate limitation income or losses in
determining the numerators of limitation fractions,
year-end recharacterization balances, and overall foreign
and domestic loss account balances.
• Use Schedule K (a separate schedule) to reconcile the
corporation’s prior-year foreign tax carryover with its
current-year foreign tax carryover.
• Use Schedule L (a separate schedule) to report foreign
tax redeterminations that occurred in the current tax year
and that relate to prior tax years.

Categories of Income

Compute a separate foreign tax credit (using a separate
Form 1118) for each applicable separate category
described below. Enter the applicable code from the table
below, in item a at the top of page 1 of Form 1118, to
2

Code

Category of Income

951A

Section 951A Category Income

FB

Foreign Branch Category Income

PAS

Passive Category Income

901j

Section 901(j) Income

RBT PAS

U.S. Source Passive Category Income
Resourced by Treaty as Foreign Source
Passive Category Income

RBT GEN

U.S. Source General Category Income
Resourced by Treaty as Foreign Source
General Category Income

RBT FB

U.S. Source Foreign Branch Income
Resourced by Treaty as Foreign Source
Foreign Branch Category Income

RBT 951A

U.S. Source Section 951A Category
Income Resourced by Treaty as
Foreign Source Section 951A Category
Income

GEN

General Category Income

If you enter code “901j” or one of the “RBT” codes in
item a, also complete item b or item c using the country
codes provided at IRS.gov/CountryCodes.

Section 951A Category Income

Section 951A category income is any amount of global
intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) includible in gross
income under section 951A (other than passive category
income). Section 951A defines GILTI.
• When completing a Form 1118 for section 951A
category income, enter the code “951A” on line a at the
top of page 1.
• Section 951A category income does not include
passive category income.

Foreign Branch Category Income

Foreign branch income is defined under section 904(d)(2)
(J)(i) as the business profits of a U.S. person which are
attributable to one or more qualified business units
(QBUs) (as defined in section 989(a)) in one or more
foreign countries. For more information on the
computation of foreign branch category income, see
Regulations section 1.904-4(f).
• When completing a Form 1118 for foreign branch
category income, enter the code “FB” on line a at the top
of page 1.
• Foreign branch category income does not include
passive category income.
• Foreign branch category income is effective for tax
years of U.S. persons beginning after December 31, 2017.

Passive Category Income

Passive category income includes passive income and
specified passive category income. When completing a
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

Form 1118 for passive category income, enter the code
“PAS” on line a at the top of page 1.
Passive income. Generally, passive income is the
following:
• Any income received or accrued that would be foreign
personal holding company income (defined in section
954(c)) if the corporation were a controlled foreign
corporation (CFC) (defined in section 957). This includes
any gain on the sale or exchange of stock that is more
than the amount treated as a dividend under section 1248.
However, in determining if any income would be foreign
personal holding company income, the rules of section
864(d)(6) will apply only for income of a CFC.
• Any amount includible in gross income under section
1293 (which relates to certain passive foreign investment
companies (PFICs)).
Passive income does not include:
• Any financial services income,
• Any export financing interest unless it is also related
person factoring income (see section 904(d)(2)(G) and
Regulations section 1.904-4(h)(3)),
• Any high-taxed income (see Regulations section
1.904-4(c)), or
• Any active rents or royalties. See Regulations section
1.904-4(b)(2)(iii) for definitions and exceptions.
Note: Certain income received from a CFC and certain
dividends from noncontrolled 10%-owned foreign
corporations that would otherwise be passive income are
treated as passive category income only to the extent
provided under the look-through rules. See Look-Through
Rules, later.
Specified passive category income. This term
includes:
• Dividends from a domestic international sales
corporation (DISC) or former DISC (as defined in section
992(a)) to the extent such dividends are treated as foreign
source income, and
• Distributions from a former foreign sales corporation
(FSC) out of earnings and profits (E&P) attributable to
foreign trade income or interest or carrying charges (as
defined in section 927(d)(1), before its repeal) derived
from a transaction which results in foreign trade income
(as defined in section 932(b), before its repeal).

Section 901(j) Income

No credit is allowed for foreign income taxes imposed by
and paid or accrued to certain sanctioned countries.
However, a foreign tax credit may be claimed for foreign
income taxes paid or accrued with respect to section
901(j) income if such tax is paid or accrued to a country
other than a sanctioned country.
Income derived from each sanctioned country is
subject to a separate foreign tax credit limitation.
Therefore, the corporation must use a separate Form
1118 for income derived from each such country.
On each Form 1118, enter the code “901j” on line a at
the top of page 1 and identify the applicable country using
the two-letter code from the list at IRS.gov/CountryCodes.
Sanctioned countries are those designated by the
Secretary of State as countries that repeatedly provide
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

support for acts of international terrorism, countries with
which the United States does not have diplomatic
relations, or countries whose governments are not
recognized by the United States. As of the date these
instructions were revised, section 901(j) applied to income
derived from Iran, North Korea, Sudan, and Syria. For
more information, see section 901(j).
Note: The President of the United States has the
authority to waive the application of section 901(j) with
respect to a foreign country if it is (a) in the national
interest of the United States and will expand trade and
investment opportunities for domestic companies in such
foreign country; and (b) the President reports to the
Congress, not less than 30 days before the waiver is
granted, the intention to grant such a waiver and the
reason for such waiver.
Note: Effective December 10, 2004, the President waived
the application of section 901(j) with respect to Libya.

Income Re-Sourced by Treaty

If a sourcing rule in an applicable income tax treaty treats
any U.S. source income as foreign source, and the
corporation elects to apply the treaty, the income will be
treated as foreign source.

Important: The corporation must compute a separate
foreign tax credit limitation for any such income for which it
claims benefits under a treaty. See Regulations sections
1.904-4(k) and 1.904-5(m)(7) for grouping rules and
exceptions. On each Form 1118, enter one of the RBT
codes listed below on line a at the top of page 1 and
identify the applicable treaty country on line c at the top of
page 1 using the two-letter code from the list at IRS.gov/
CountryCodes.
Code “RBT PAS.” If an applicable income tax treaty
treats any U.S. source passive category income as foreign
source passive category income, and the corporation
elects to apply the treaty, on Form 1118, enter code “RBT
PAS” on line a at the top of page 1.
Code “RBT GEN.” If an applicable income tax treaty
treats any U.S. source general category income as foreign
source general category income, and the corporation
elects to apply the treaty, on Form 1118, enter code “RBT
GEN” on line a at the top of page 1.
Code “RBT FB.” If an applicable income tax treaty treats
any U.S. source foreign branch category income as
foreign source foreign branch category income, and the
corporation elects to apply the treaty, on Form 1118, enter
code “RBT FB” on line a at the top of page 1.
Code “RBT 951A.” If an applicable income tax treaty
treats any U.S. source section 951A category income as
foreign source section 951A category income, and the
corporation elects to apply the treaty, on Form 1118, enter
code “RBT 951A” on line a at the top of page 1.

General Category Income

This category includes all income not described above.
When completing a Form 1118 for the general category of
income, enter code “GEN” on line a at the top of page 1.
3

This category includes high-taxed income that is not
otherwise treated as another category of income. Usually,
income is high taxed if the total foreign income taxes paid,
accrued, or deemed paid by the corporation for that
income exceed the highest rate of tax specified in section
11 (and with reference to section 15, if applicable),
multiplied by the amount of such income (including the
amount treated as a dividend under section 78). For more
information, see Regulations section 1.904-4(c). Also see
the instructions for Schedule A, later, for additional
reporting requirements.
This category also includes financial services income
(defined below) not described above if the corporation is a
member of a financial services group (as defined in
section 904(d)(2)(C)(ii)) or is predominantly engaged in
the active conduct of a banking, insurance, financing, or
similar business.
Financial services income. Financial services income
is income received or accrued by a member of a financial
services group or any corporation predominantly engaged
in the active conduct of a banking, insurance, financing, or
similar business if the income is:
• Described in section 904(d)(2)(D)(ii),
• Passive income (determined without regard to section
904(d)(2)(B)(iii)(II)), or
• Incidental income described in Regulations section
1.904-4(e)(4).
Note: If the corporation qualified as a financial services
entity because it treated certain amounts as active
financing income that are not listed in Regulations
sections 1.904-4(e)(2)(i)(A) through (X), but that are
described as similar items in Regulations section
1.904-4(e)(2)(i)(Y), attach a statement to Form 1118
showing the types and amounts of the similar items.

Special Rules
Source Rules for Income

Determine income or (loss) for each separate category on
Schedule A using the general source rules of sections 861
through 865 and related regulations, the special source
rules of section 904(h) described below, and any
applicable source rules contained in any applicable tax
treaties.

Special source rules of section 904(h). Usually, the
following income from a U.S.-owned foreign corporation,
otherwise treated as foreign source income, must be
treated as U.S. source income under section 904(h).
• Any subpart F income, foreign personal holding
company income, GILTI, or income from a qualified
electing fund that a U.S. shareholder is required to include
in its gross income if such amount is attributable to the
U.S.-owned foreign corporation’s U.S. source income.
• Interest that is properly allocable to the U.S.-owned
foreign corporation’s U.S. source income.
• Dividends equal to the U.S. source ratio (defined in
section 904(h)(4)(B)).
The rules regarding interest and dividends described
above do not apply to a U.S.-owned foreign corporation if
less than 10% of its E&P for the tax year is from U.S.
sources.
4

Amounts That Do Not Constitute Income Under
U.S. Tax Principles

Creditable foreign taxes that are imposed on amounts that
do not constitute income under U.S. tax principles are
treated as imposed on income described in section 904(d)
(1)(B). See section 904(d)(2)(H).

Look-Through Rules
CFCs. Generally, dividends, interest, rents, and royalties
received or accrued by the taxpayer are passive category
income. However, if these items are received or accrued
by a 10% U.S. shareholder from a CFC, they may be
assigned to other separate categories, or may be treated
as passive category income under the look-through rules
of section 904(d)(3). Dividends include any amount
included in gross income under section 951(a)(1)(B).
Look-through rules also apply to subpart F inclusions
under section 951(a)(1)(A) and GILTI inclusions under
section 951A to the extent attributable to income of the
CFC in the passive category.
For more information and examples, see section 904(d)
(3) and Regulations section 1.904-5.
Noncontrolled 10%-owned foreign corporations.
Generally, dividends received or accrued by the taxpayer
are passive category income. However, dividends
received or accrued from a noncontrolled 10%-owned
foreign corporation may be assigned to other separate
categories under the look-through rules of section 904(d)
(4).
Certain amounts paid by a domestic corporation to a
related corporation. Look-through rules also apply to
foreign source interest, rents, and royalties paid by a
domestic corporation to a related corporation. See
Regulations section 1.904-5(g).

Other Rules
Certain transfers of intangible property. See section
367(d)(2)(C) for a rule that clarifies the treatment of certain
transfers of intangible property.

Reporting Foreign Tax Information From
Partnerships

If you received a Schedule K-3 (Form 1065) or a
Schedule K-3 (Form 8865) from a partnership that
includes foreign tax information, use the rules below to
report that information on Form 1118.

Schedule K-3, Part II, Section 1
Gross income sourced at partner level. This includes
income from the sale of most personal property other than
inventory, depreciable property, and certain intangible
property sourced under section 865. This gross income
will generally be U.S. source and therefore will not be
reported on Form 1118.
Foreign gross income sourced at partnership level.
Report on Schedule A.

Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

Schedule K-3, Part II, Section 2

Credit Limitations

Deductions allocated and apportioned at partner level and partnership level. Report on Schedule A or
Schedule H.

Taxes Eligible for a Credit

Schedule K-3, Part III, Sections 1 Through 3
R&E expenses apportionment factors. Report on
Schedule H, Part I.
Interest expense apportionment factors. Report on
Schedule H, Part II.
Foreign-derived intangible income (FDII) deduction
apportionment factors. Report on Schedule H, Part II.

Schedule K-3, Part III, Section 4
Total foreign taxes paid or accrued. Report on
Schedule B.
Foreign tax redeterminations. Report on Schedule L.
Reduction in taxes available for credit. Report on
Schedule G.

Schedule K-3 (Form 1065), Part VIII
Partner’s interest in foreign corporation income (section 960). Report on Schedule C or D, as applicable.
Note: Schedule K-3 (Form 8865) does not contain a part
equivalent to Schedule K-3 (Form 1065), Part VIII.

Capital Gains

Foreign source taxable income or (loss) before
adjustments in all separate categories in the aggregate
should include gain from the sale or exchange of capital
assets only up to the amount of foreign source capital gain
net income (which is the smaller of capital gain net income
from sources outside the United States or capital gain net
income). Therefore, if the corporation has capital gain net
income from sources outside the United States in excess
of the capital gain net income reported on its tax return,
enter a pro rata portion of the net U.S. source capital loss
on Schedule A, column 13(j), for each separate category
with capital gain net income from sources outside the
United States. To figure the pro rata portion of the net U.S.
source capital loss attributable to a separate category,
multiply the net U.S. source capital loss by the amount of
capital gain net income from sources outside the United
States in the separate category divided by the aggregate
amount of capital gain net income from sources outside
the United States in all separate categories with capital
gain net income from sources outside the United States.
See section 904(b)(2)(B) for special rules regarding
adjustments to account for capital gain rate differentials
(as defined in section 904(b)(3)(D)) for any tax year. At the
time these instructions went to print, there was no capital
gain rate differential for corporations.

Domestic corporations. Generally, a domestic
corporation may claim a foreign tax credit (subject to the
limitation of section 904) for the following taxes.
• Income, war profits, and excess profits taxes paid or
accrued during the tax year to any foreign country or U.S.
territory.
• Taxes paid in lieu of income taxes as described in
section 903.
• Taxes deemed paid under section 960.
Income, war profits, and excess profits taxes and in lieu
of taxes are collectively referred to as foreign income
taxes. See Regulations sections 1.901-2(a) and (b) and
1.903-1 for rules for determining whether a foreign tax
qualifies as a foreign income tax.
Caution: Final foreign tax credit regulations issued on
January 4, 2022 (T.D. 9959, 87 FR 374) revised the
creditability requirements under Regulations sections
1.901-2 and 1.903-1, applicable for foreign taxes paid or
accrued in tax years beginning on or after December 28,
2021. A Notice was subsequently released on July 21,
2023, providing taxpayers the option to apply modified
rules in place of certain provisions of the new regulations.
For more information, see Notice 2023-55, 2023-32 I.R.B.
427, available at IRS.gov/irb/2023-32_IRB#NOT-2023-55.
Some foreign taxes that are otherwise eligible for the
foreign tax credit must be reduced. These reductions are
reported on Schedule G.
Note: A corporation may not claim a foreign tax credit for
foreign income taxes paid to a foreign country that the
corporation does not legally owe, including amounts
eligible for refund by the foreign country. If the corporation
does not exercise its available remedies to reduce the
amount of foreign income tax to what it legally owes, a
credit is not allowed for the excess amount.
Foreign corporations. Foreign corporations are allowed
(under section 906) a foreign tax credit for foreign income
taxes paid or accrued to any foreign country or U.S.
territory for income effectively connected with the conduct
of a trade or business within the United States. The credit
is not applicable, however, if a foreign country or U.S.
territory imposes the tax on income from U.S. sources
solely because the foreign corporation was created or
organized under the law of the foreign country or U.S.
territory or is domiciled there for tax purposes.
The credit may not be taken against any tax imposed
on income not effectively connected with a U.S. business.
In computing the foreign tax credit limitation, the foreign
corporation’s taxable income includes only the taxable
income that is effectively connected with the conduct of a
trade or business within the United States.

Credit or Deduction

A corporation may choose to take either a credit or a
deduction for eligible foreign income taxes paid or
accrued. The choice is made annually. Generally, if a
corporation elects the benefits of the foreign tax credit for
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

5

any tax year, no portion of the foreign income taxes paid
or accrued in such year will be allowed as a deduction in
that year or any subsequent tax year.
Exceptions. However, a corporation that elects the credit
for foreign income taxes may be allowed a deduction for
certain taxes for which a credit was not allowed. These
include the following.
• Taxes for which the credit was denied because of the
boycott provisions of section 908.
• Certain taxes on the purchase or sale of oil or gas
(section 901(f)).
• Certain taxes used to provide subsidies (section 901(i)).
• Taxes paid to certain foreign countries for which a credit
was denied under section 901(j).
• Certain taxes paid on dividends if the minimum holding
period is not met with respect to the underlying stock, or if
the corporation is obligated to make related payments with
respect to positions in similar or related property (section
901(k)).
• Certain taxes paid on gain and income other than
dividends if the minimum holding period is not met with
respect to the underlying property, or if the corporation is
obligated to make related payments with respect to
positions in similar or related property (see section 901(l)).
• In the case of a covered asset acquisition (as defined in
section 901(m)(2)), the disqualified portion of any tax
determined with respect to the income or gain attributable
to the relevant foreign assets (section 901(m)). Note: This
rule generally applies to covered asset acquisitions after
December 31, 2010. See Regulations sections
1.901(m)-1 through 1.901(m)-8 for additional information.
Note that the rules contained in these regulations have
later effective dates.
• Taxes paid by an accrual-basis taxpayer that relate to a
prior tax year in which the taxpayer elected to claim a
deduction for foreign income taxes in that prior year. See
Regulations section 1.901-1(c)(3).

No Credit or Deduction

No foreign tax credit (or deduction) is allowed for certain
taxes including:
• Taxes on mineral income that were reduced under
section 901(e).
• Certain taxes paid on distributions from corporations
organized in a U.S. territory (section 901(g)).
• Taxes on combined foreign oil and gas income that
were reduced under section 907(a).
• Taxes attributable to income excluded under section
814(a) (relating to contiguous country branches of
domestic life insurance companies).
• Taxes paid or accrued to a foreign country or U.S.
territory with respect to income excluded from gross
income on Form 8873, Extraterritorial Income Exclusion.
However, see section 943(d) for an exception for certain
withholding taxes.
• The applicable percentage of taxes paid or deemed
paid with respect to an amount included in income under
section 965 (section 965(g)).
• Taxes paid with respect to the amount treated as
included under section 965(b).

6

Carryback and Carryforward of Excess Foreign
Taxes

If the allowable foreign income taxes paid, accrued, or
deemed paid in a tax year in a separate category exceed
the foreign tax credit limitation for the tax year for that
separate category, the excess is:
• First, carried back 1 year to offset taxes imposed in the
same category, then
• Carried forward 10 years to offset taxes imposed in the
same category.
The excess is applied first to the earliest of the years to
which it may be carried, then to the next earliest year, etc.
The corporation may not carry a credit to a tax year for
which it claimed a deduction, rather than a credit, for
foreign income taxes paid or accrued. Furthermore, the
corporation must reduce the amount of any carryback or
carryforward by the amount it would have used had it
chosen to claim a credit rather than a deduction in that tax
year. These carryover provisions do not apply to foreign
income taxes assigned to section 951A category income.
See section 904(c) and Regulations section 1.904-2 for
more details.
How to claim the excess credit. If the corporation is
carrying back the excess credit to an earlier year, file an
amended tax return with a revised Form 1118 and
schedules (including a revised Schedule K (Form 1118)).
Special rules apply to:

• The carryback and carryforward of foreign income taxes

paid or accrued on combined foreign oil and gas income
or related taxes (see section 907(f)).
• An excess foreign tax credit for which an excess
limitation account exists under section 960(c)(2). See
Regulations sections 1.960-4 through 1.960-6.
• Carryback of foreign income taxes paid or accrued in
post-2017 foreign corporate tax years and carryforward of
foreign income taxes paid or accrued in pre-2018 foreign
corporate tax years. See Regulations section 1.904-2(j).

Treaty-Based Return Positions

Corporations that adopt a return position that any U.S.
treaty overrides or modifies any provision of the Internal
Revenue Code, and causes (or potentially causes) a
reduction of any tax incurred at any time, must generally
disclose this position. This includes when a corporation is
relying on a U.S. treaty to claim a credit for a foreign tax.
Complete Form 8833, Treaty-Based Return Position
Disclosure Under Section 6114 or Section 7701(b), and
attach it to Form 1118. See section 6114 and Regulations
section 301.6114-1 for details.
Failure to make such a report may result in a $10,000
penalty.

Proof of Credits

Form 1118 must be carefully filled in with all the
information called for and with the calculations of credits
indicated.

Important: Documentation (that is, receipts of payments
or a foreign tax return for accrued taxes) is not required to
be attached to Form 1118. However, proof must be
presented upon request by the IRS to substantiate the
credit. See Regulations section 1.905-2.
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

If the corporation claims a foreign tax credit for tax
accrued but not paid, the IRS may require a bond to be
furnished on Form 1117, Income Tax Surety Bond, before
the credit is allowed. See Regulations section 1.905-2(c).

Foreign Tax Redeterminations

The corporation’s foreign tax credit and U.S. tax liability
must generally be redetermined if:
• Accrued foreign income taxes when paid or later
adjusted differ from the amounts claimed as credits
(including corrections to accrued amounts to reflect final
foreign tax liability and additional payments of tax that
accrue after the close of the tax year to which the tax
relates);
• Accrued foreign income taxes are not paid within 24
months after the close of the tax year to which they relate;
• Any foreign income tax paid is fully or partially refunded;
• A change in foreign tax liability that affects the amount
of distributions or inclusions under sections 951, 951A, or
1293, or affects the application of the high-tax exception
described in section 954(b)(4); or
• A change to claim a foreign tax credit for foreign income
taxes that were previously deducted or a change to claim
a deduction for foreign income taxes that were previously
credited.
See Regulations section 1.905-3(a) and (b).
See Regulations section 1.905-3(b)(1)(i) for a limited
exception to a redetermination of a U.S. tax liability with
respect to foreign income tax claimed as a credit under
section 901 (other than a tax deemed paid under section
960).
A redetermination of U.S. tax liability is also generally
required to account for the effect of a redetermination of
foreign income tax paid or accrued by a foreign
corporation on the amount of foreign income taxes
deemed paid under section 960. See Regulations section
1.905-3(b)(2). For foreign tax redeterminations of a foreign
corporation that relate to a tax year of the foreign
corporation beginning before January 1, 2018, see
Regulations section 1.905-5.

Reporting Requirements

If, as a result of the foreign tax redetermination, the
corporation’s U.S. tax liability for any tax year is changed,
the corporation must file an amended return to report the
foreign tax redetermination and, if applicable, pay
additional U.S. tax.
Increase in U.S. tax liability as a result of foreign tax
redeterminations is excepted from the general statute of
limitations against assessment and collection. See
sections 6501(c)(5) and 905(c). If you have a foreign tax
redetermination that results in an increase in your U.S. tax
liability for any year, please enter on page 2 of your Form
1120-X: “This amended return and Form 1118 is for a
change in Foreign Tax Credit that increases U.S. tax
liability.”
In addition, the amended return must have attached to
it an amended Form 1118 and a statement that provides
the following.
• The taxpayer’s name, address, identifying number, the
tax year or years of the taxpayer that are affected by the
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

foreign tax redetermination, and, in the case of foreign
income taxes deemed paid, the name and identifying
number, if any, of the foreign corporation.
• The date or dates the foreign income taxes were
accrued, if applicable.
• The date or dates the foreign income taxes were paid.
• The amount of foreign income taxes paid or accrued on
each date (in foreign currency) and the exchange rate
used to translate each such amount.
• Information sufficient to determine any change to the
characterization of a distribution or the amount of any
inclusion under section 951(a), 951A, 1291, or 1293.
• An amended Form 5471 when applicable.
• Information sufficient to determine any interest due from
or owing to the taxpayer, including the amount of any
interest paid by the foreign government to the taxpayer,
and the dates received.

Additional Information Required
If the redetermination was because of one of the following,
the corporation must provide the additional information as
indicated.
Refund of foreign income taxes paid.
• The date of each such refund.
• The amount of such refund (in foreign currency).
• The exchange rate that was used to translate such
amount when originally claimed as a credit.
• The spot rate (as defined in Regulations section
1.988-1(d)) for the date the refund was received (for
purposes of computing foreign currency gain or loss under
section 988).
Accrued foreign income taxes that are not paid on or
before the date that is 24 months after the close of
the tax year to which such taxes relate.
• The amount of such taxes in foreign currency.
• The exchange rate that was used to translate such
amount when originally claimed as a credit or added to
post-1986 foreign income taxes or PTEP group taxes (as
defined in Regulations section 1.960-3(d)(1)).
Redetermination of U.S. tax liability results in an
amount of additional tax due, and the carryback or
carryover of an unused foreign income tax under
section 904(c) only partially eliminates such amount.
The information required in Regulations section
1.904-2(f).
Foreign tax redeterminations of foreign corporations
that relate to tax years of the foreign corporation beginning before January 1, 2018. Provide the additional
information listed under both categories below, as
applicable.
Post-1986 pools of earnings and taxes of foreign
corporations.
• The closing balances of the pools of post-1986
undistributed earnings and post-1986 foreign income
taxes for each affected year before and after adjusting the
pools to account for the foreign tax redetermination.
• The dates and amounts of any dividend distributions or
other inclusions made out of post-1986 undistributed
earnings for the affected year or years.

7

Pre-1987 accumulated profits of foreign
corporations.
• The dates and amounts of any dividend distributions or
other inclusions made out of E&P for the affected year or
years.
• The rate of exchange on the date of any such
distribution or inclusion.
• The amount of E&P from which such dividends were
paid or inclusions were made for the affected year or
years.
See Regulations sections 1.986(a)-1 and 1.905-3
through 1.905-5 for further information regarding
redeterminations and the required notification.
For special rules relating to corporations under the
jurisdiction of the Large Business and International
Division, see Regulations section 1.905-4(b)(4).
Schedule L (Form 1118). In addition to filing an
amended return with Form 1118 and attached statement
for the tax year(s) of the taxpayer for which the U.S. tax
liability is changed as a result of the foreign tax
redetermination, the taxpayer must include with its
current-year return a Schedule L (Form 1118)
summarizing the foreign tax redeterminations that
occurred that year.
If a foreign tax redetermination does not change the
amount of U.S. tax due for any tax year, the taxpayer does
not need to file an amended return and may instead notify
the IRS of the redetermination by attaching a completed
Schedule L (Form 1118) to the original return for the
taxpayer’s tax year in which the foreign tax
redetermination occurs. See Instructions for Schedule L
(Form 1118) for additional information.
Election to account for foreign tax redeterminations
with respect to pre-2018 tax years in the foreign corporation’s last pooling year. An irrevocable election
may be made by a foreign corporation’s controlling
domestic shareholders to account for all foreign tax
redeterminations that occur in tax years ending on or after
November 2, 2020, with respect to pre-2018 tax years of
foreign corporations as if they occurred in the foreign
corporation’s last tax year beginning before January 1,
2018 (last pooling year). Such election is binding on all
persons who are, or were in a prior year to which the
election applies, U.S. shareholders of the foreign
corporation with respect to which the election is made for
all of its subsequent foreign tax redeterminations, as well
as foreign tax redeterminations of other members of the
same CFC group as the foreign corporation for which the
election is made. The election is made by filing:
• The statement required under Regulations section
1.964-1(c)(3)(ii) with a timely filed original income tax
return for the tax year of each controlling domestic
shareholder of the foreign corporation in which or with
which the foreign corporation’s first redetermination year
ends;
• Any notices required under Regulations section
1.964-1(c)(3)(iii);
• Amended returns as required under Regulations
sections 1.905-4, 1.905-5(e), 1.905-3T(d), and 1.905-5T.
See Regulations section 1.905-5(e) for additional
information.
8

Contested foreign income tax liability. In general, a
taxpayer cannot claim a credit for a contested foreign
income tax liability until the contest is resolved and the
amount of the liability is finally determined.
Cash method taxpayers. Unless an election to claim
a provisional credit for contested foreign income taxes
(described below) is made, a taxpayer that claims the
foreign tax credit on a cash basis cannot claim a credit for
a contested foreign income tax liability (or portion thereof)
that has been remitted to the foreign country until such
time as the contest is resolved and the tax is considered
paid for purposes of section 901. Once the contest is
resolved and the foreign income tax liability is finally
determined, the tax liability is treated as paid in the tax
year in which the foreign tax was remitted. See
Regulations section 1.905-1(c)(2).
Accrual method taxpayers. Unless an election to
claim a provisional credit for contested foreign income
taxes is made, a taxpayer that claims the foreign tax credit
on the accrual basis cannot claim a credit for a contested
foreign income tax liability until such time as both the
contest is resolved and the tax is considered paid, even if
the contested liability (or portion thereof) has previously
been remitted to the foreign country. Once the contest is
resolved and the foreign income tax liability is finally
determined and paid, the tax liability accrues, and is
considered to accrue in the relation-back year for
purposes of the foreign tax credit. See Regulations
section 1.905-1(d)(3).

Election To Claim a Provisional Credit for
Contested Foreign Income Taxes
Cash method taxpayers. A taxpayer claiming foreign
tax credits on the cash basis may elect to claim a foreign
tax credit for a contested foreign income tax liability (or a
portion thereof) in the year the contested amount (or a
portion thereof) is remitted to the foreign country,
notwithstanding that the liability is not finally determined
and so is not considered an amount of tax paid.
This election is available only for contested foreign
income taxes that are remitted in a tax year in which the
taxpayer has elected under section 901(a) to claim a
credit, instead of a deduction under section 164(a)(3), for
foreign income taxes that are paid in such year.
To make the election, a taxpayer claiming credits on the
cash basis must file a Form 1118 for the tax year in which
the contested liability is remitted and a Form 7204,
Consent To Extend the Time To Assess Tax Related to
Contested Foreign Income Taxes—Provisional Foreign
Tax Credit Agreement.
In addition, the taxpayer must, for each subsequent tax
year up to and including the tax year in which the contest
is resolved, file annually Schedule L (Form 1118). Any
portion of a contested foreign income tax liability for which
a provisional credit is claimed that is subsequently
refunded by the foreign country results in a foreign tax
redetermination under Regulations section 1.905-3(a).
Accrual method taxpayers. A taxpayer may elect to
claim a foreign tax credit for a contested foreign income
tax liability (or a portion thereof) in the relation-back year
when the contested amount (or a portion thereof) is
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

remitted to the foreign country, notwithstanding that the
liability is not finally determined and so has not accrued.
This election is available only for contested foreign
income taxes that relate to a tax year in which the taxpayer
has elected under section 901(a) to claim a credit, instead
of a deduction under section 164(a)(3), for foreign income
taxes that accrued in such year.
A taxpayer claiming credits on the accrual basis must
file an original or amended return for the tax year to which
the contested tax relates, together with a Form 1118, and
a Form 7204.
In addition, the taxpayer must, for each subsequent tax
year up to and including the tax year in which the contest
is resolved, file annually Schedule L (Form 1118). Any
portion of a contested foreign income tax liability for which
a provisional credit is claimed that is subsequently
refunded by the foreign country results in a foreign tax
redetermination under Regulations section 1.905-3(a).

Interest and Penalties

In most cases, interest is computed on the deficiency or
overpayment that resulted from the foreign tax adjustment
(sections 6601 and 6611 and the related regulations). See
Regulations section 1.905-4(e) for additional information.
If the corporation does not comply with the
requirements discussed above within the time for filing
specified, the penalty provisions of section 6689 (and the
related regulations) will apply.

Specific Instructions

Report all amounts in U.S. dollars unless otherwise
specified. If it is necessary to convert from a foreign
currency, attach a statement explaining how the
conversion rate was determined.

Lines a, b, and c at the top of page 1 of the form. The
corporation must complete a separate Form 1118 for each
applicable category of income. See Categories of Income,
earlier, for the code to enter on line a (at the top of page 1
of the form). Also see those instructions for the country
code to enter on line b or line c, if applicable.

Schedule A

Report gross income from sources outside the United
States for the applicable separate category in columns
3(a) through 11. Report the applicable deductions to this
gross income in columns 13 and 14. Report any net
operating loss carryover in column 15.

Column 1(a). Column 1(a) generally requests an
employer identification number (EIN) or a reference ID
number for related persons or their QBUs from or through
which the corporation derived foreign source income
and/or paid or accrued creditable foreign taxes.
However, enter in column 1(a) the “Unrelated code” in
cases where the corporation derived foreign source
income and/or paid or accrued creditable foreign taxes
from or through unrelated persons or their QBUs. Also,
column 1(a) can be left blank, but only if one of the
following seven entries is made in column 1(b).
• 863(b)
• RIC
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

• NOL
• HTKO
• 951A
• G2B
• B2G

See the instructions for column 1(b), later, for more
information regarding when the above entries can be
made in column 1(b).
Note: Taxpayers no longer have the option of entering
“FOREIGNUS” or “APPLIED FOR” in this column. Instead,
if the related person or their QBU does not have an EIN,
the taxpayer must use a reference ID number that
uniquely identifies such related person or QBU, using the
rules set forth in Reference ID numbers, in the
Requirements section, later.
Where gross income is derived from a related person
(within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)), enter the
EIN or reference ID number of such related person. In the
case of income derived from a QBU of the related person,
enter the EIN or reference ID number of the QBU. Enter
the EIN or reference ID number of related entities and their
QBUs through which the corporation paid or accrued
creditable foreign taxes, even if no income from these
entities is reported on Schedule A. If gross income is
received or derived from an entity other than a related
person, an EIN or reference ID number is not required.
Example 1. Domestic Corporation earns sales income
from sales to unrelated persons. Domestic Corporation
leaves column 1(a) blank and enters the sales income in
column 7.
Example 2. USC, a domestic corporation, takes into
account its distributive share of partnership income with
respect to USPS, a domestic partnership in which USC
has a 60% interest. In column 1(a), USC enters the
identifying number for USPS.
Reference ID numbers. A reference ID number is a
number established by or on behalf of the domestic
corporation filing Form 1118. With respect to Schedule A,
these numbers are used to uniquely identify the payor with
respect to payments from related persons, in order to
determine the proper source of such payment. With
respect to Schedules C through E, these numbers are
used to uniquely identify foreign corporations in order to
keep track of those corporations from tax year to tax year.
The reference ID number must meet the requirements set
forth below.
Note: Because reference ID numbers are established by
or on behalf of the U.S. corporation filing certain forms
such as Form 1118, there is no need to apply to the IRS to
request a reference ID number or for permission to use
these numbers.
Requirements. The reference ID number must be
alphanumeric (defined below) and no special characters
or spaces are permitted. The length of a given reference
ID number is limited to 50 characters.
For these purposes, the term “alphanumeric” means
the entry can be alphabetic, numeric, or any combination
of the two.

9

The same reference ID number must be used
consistently from tax year to tax year with respect to a
given entity. If for any reason a reference ID number falls
out of use (for example, the entity no longer exists due to
disposition or liquidation), the reference ID number used
for that entity cannot be used again for another entity for
purposes of filing Form 1118.
There are some situations that require correlation of a
new reference ID number with a previous reference ID
number. For example:
• In the case of a merger or acquisition, a Form 1118 filer
must use a reference ID number which correlates the
previous reference ID number with the new reference ID
number assigned to the entity.
• In the case of an entity classification election that is
made on behalf of a foreign corporation on Form 8832,
Regulations section 301.6109-1(b)(2)(v) requires the
foreign corporation to have an EIN for this election. For the
first year that Form 1118 is filed after an entity
classification election is made on behalf of the foreign
corporation on Form 8832, both the new EIN and the old
reference ID number must be entered in column 1(a), as
explained in the next paragraph.
You must correlate the identifying numbers as follows:
New EIN or reference ID number [space] Old reference ID
number. If there is more than one old reference ID number,
you must enter a space between each such number. As
indicated above, the length of a given reference ID
number is limited to 50 characters and each number must
be alphanumeric and no special characters are permitted.
Note: This correlation requirement applies only to the first
year the new reference ID number is used.
Branches. For each branch that is not a foreign branch,
as defined under Regulations section 1.904-4(f)(3)(vii),
use a single line to report such branch’s gross income and
deductions. In column 1(a), enter “Branch.” If there is more
than one branch, enter the identifying number of the
branch (as reported in Form 8858) after the word “Branch”
on each line. These amounts should be reported on a
Form 1118 other than the Form 1118 for the foreign
branch income category.
Example. USC, a domestic corporation, has a branch
in Country X. The activities of the branch do not constitute
a trade or business. In column 1(a), USC enters the word
“Branch.” USC will report the income and expenses of the
branch in the appropriate columns.
See below with respect to QBUs that are foreign
branches as defined under Regulations section 1.904-4(f)
(3)(vii).

related person in Country X and USC earns gross income
of $15 with respect to services performed for the related
person in Country Y. The two-letter country code for
Country X is XX and the two-letter country code for
Country Y is YY. On Schedule A, USC reports as follows.
USC makes the following entries on the first of two lines
on Schedule A.
Column

Entry

1(a)

1000016

2

XX

8

10

USC makes the following entries on the second of two
lines on Schedule A.
Column

Entry

1(a)

1000016

2

YY

8

15

Qualified business units (QBUs). For QBUs that are
foreign branches under Regulations section 1.904-4(f)(3)
(vii), use a separate line for each such branch to report
each branch’s gross income and deductions. Report these
amounts on a per-country basis. In column 1(a), enter the
EIN or reference ID number of the QBU. Enter the country
code in column 2. These amounts should be reported on
Form 1118 for foreign branch category income or passive
category income.
Column 1(b). Enter the code(s) for specific types of
foreign source income with respect to which taxpayers are
permitted to aggregate all such income and report the
totals on a single line on Schedule A.
Code

Aggregate Foreign Source Income

863(b)

Section 863(b) income

RIC

Regulated Investment Company

NOL

Net Operating Loss

HTKO

High-Tax Kick-Out

951A

Section 951A income

G2B

General to Branch

B2G

Branch to General

Special Cases for Columns 1 and 2

Except as otherwise instructed below, income of a U.S.
shareholder with respect to the same related person but
from multiple sources should be reported on a
country-by-country basis.
Example. USC, a domestic corporation, has
employees who perform services in Country X and
Country Y for the same related person. The related person
has a reference ID number of 1000016. USC earns gross
income of $10 with respect to services performed for the
10

Section 863(b) gross income and deductions.
Aggregate all section 863(b) foreign source gross income
and deductions and report the totals on a single line. It
may be necessary to enter amounts in multiple columns
on that single line, depending upon the nature of the
section 863(b) gross income and deductions. For
example, leave columns 1(a) and 2 blank, enter “863(b)”
in column 1(b), and enter (as a positive number) all
section 863(b) gross income (in columns 3 through 12)
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

and all section 863(b) deductions (in columns 13 through
16). Also enter the net amount in column 17. Note that the
totals are being reported on a single line because it is not
necessary to report section 863(b) gross income and
deductions on a per-country basis.
Regulated investment company (RIC) pass-through
amounts. Aggregate all income passed through from
RICs and report the total on a single line. Leave columns
1(a) and 2 blank, enter “RIC” in column 1(b), and report
the total in column 17. Note that the totals are being
reported on a single line because it is not necessary to
report the RIC pass-through amounts on a per-country
basis.
Net operating losses (NOLs). Report any NOL
carryover on a single line. Leave columns 1(a) and 2
blank, enter “NOL” in column 1(b), and report the total in
column 15. Note that the totals are being reported on a
single line because it is not necessary to report the NOL
on a per-country basis.
Reclassifications of high-taxed income. Aggregate all
reclassifications of high-taxed income and report the total
on a single line. With respect to passive category income,
for items of income that have been included on
Schedule A and that must be reclassified under sections
904(d)(2)(B)(iii)(II) and 904(d)(2)(F), leave columns 1(a)
and 2 blank and enter “HTKO” in column 1(b) and enter
(as a negative number) in column 17 the net amount of
income that is being reclassified from passive category
income. With respect to the category of income to which
such passive income is reclassified, leave columns 1(a)
and 2 blank, enter “HTKO” in column 1(b), and enter (as a
positive number) in column 17 the net amount of income
that is being reclassified to such category of income. Note
that the reclassifications are being reported on a single
line because it is not necessary to report them on a
per-country basis. Also, note that tax reclassifications are
needed on Schedule B. See those instructions for more
information.
Inclusions under section 951A. Because computations
for inclusions under section 951A are reported on
separate Form 8992, Shareholder Calculation of Global
Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI), report the inclusion
under section 951A on a single line. Specifically, there is
no need to report the identifying numbers and various
countries associated with an inclusion under section 951A
on Form 1118.
For inclusions under section 951A, enter “951A” in
column 1(b) instead of a two-letter code. Leave columns
1(a) and 2 blank.
Reattribution of income by reason of disregarded
payments between a foreign branch and its foreign
branch owner. For reattribution of income from the
general category to the foreign branch category, enter
“G2B” in column 1(b) instead of a two-letter code. Leave
column 1(a) blank.
For reattribution of income from the foreign branch
category to the general category, enter “B2G” in column
1(b) instead of a two-letter code. Leave column 1(a) blank.
See Regulations section 1.904-4(f)(2)(vi)(B) for more
information regarding the rules pertaining to reattribution
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

of income by reason of disregarded payments between a
foreign branch and its foreign branch owner.
Column 2. Enter the two-letter code (from the list at
IRS.gov/CountryCodes) of each foreign country and U.S.
territory within which income is sourced and/or to which
taxes were paid or accrued.
Note: Complete this column with respect to all income
regardless of whether such income is from a related
person.
Column 3(a). Report all inclusions under sections 951(a)
(1) (including amounts under section 951(a)(1)(B) and
section 964(e)(4)) and 951A (before gross-up). See
section 904(d)(3) and Look-Through Rules, earlier, for
more information with respect to the separate category of
such inclusions. For each inclusion under section 951(a)
(1) with respect to a CFC, make sure to enter the
appropriate identifying number in column 1(a) and the
country of residence of the CFC in column 2.
Note: Inclusions under section 951(a)(1) now include
hybrid dividends received by a CFC from another CFC of
the same U.S. shareholder. See section 245A(e)(2).
Do not report the inclusion under section 951A net of
the deduction allowed under section 250. The deduction
under section 250 is taken into account in Schedule A,
column 13(c).
If the corporation is a U.S. shareholder in a PFIC that is
a qualified electing fund, report all income deemed
received (before gross-up) under section 1293.
Column 3(b). In column 3(b), include taxes deemed paid
by a domestic corporation with respect to inclusions under
section 951(a)(1) and section 951A as gross-ups. For
inclusions under section 951(a)(1), the gross-up is the
taxes deemed paid as reported in the total of Schedule C,
column 7. The gross-up for inclusions under section 951A
is the amount computed in Schedule D, Part II, column 3.
Column 4. Report dividends from sources outside the
United States for the applicable separate category. This
includes dividends eligible for the dividends received
deduction under section 245A. Note that hybrid dividends
are not eligible for the dividends received deduction.
Note: In general, dividends from a domestic corporation
are U.S. source income, including dividends from a
domestic corporation which has 80% or more of its gross
income from sources outside the United States.
Column 5. Enter interest received from foreign sources.
See section 861(c) for the treatment of interest from a
domestic corporation that meets the foreign business
requirement.
Column 7. Include foreign source gross income from
sales (net of returns and allowances and less costs of
goods sold). Include the foreign source portion of section
863(b) sales in this column.
Note: Under section 863(b), income from the sale of
inventory property is sourced to the place of production.
Accordingly, do not include inventory produced in the
United States and sold overseas in this column.
11

Column 8. Include gross income, including
compensation, commissions, fees, etc., for technical,
managerial, engineering, construction, scientific, or similar
services outside the United States.
Columns 9 and 10. Include the following amounts in
column 9. Use a separate line for each type of gain and
enter the corresponding code in column 10.
• Foreign source exchange gain recognized under
section 986(c) on a distribution of PTEP. Enter code
“986c” in column 10.
• Foreign source exchange gain recognized under
section 987(3) on a remittance from a QBU. Enter code
“987” in column 10.
• Foreign source exchange gain recognized under
section 988. Enter code “988” in column 10.
Note: Section 988 exchange gain or loss is sourced by
reference to the residence of the taxpayer or the QBU of
the taxpayer on whose books the nonfunctional currency
asset or liability is properly reflected.
Column 11. Include other gross income from sources
outside the United States for the applicable separate
category. Attach a schedule identifying the gross income
by type.
Column 13(a). Enter the dividends received deduction
allowed on foreign source dividends under section 245A.
This should be equal to the amount reported in
Schedule A, column 4, if all such dividend income is
eligible for the dividends received deduction.
Note: Certain hybrid dividends are not eligible for the
dividends received deduction under section 245A. See
section 245A(e)(1).
Note: An amount treated as a dividend under section
1291(d)(2)(B) (related to PFICs) is ineligible for the
dividends received deduction. See section 245A(f).
Note: The foreign branch income and section 951A
income categories do not include any dividend income
eligible to be offset by the deduction under section 245A.
Column 13(b). Enter the deduction allowed under
section 250(a)(1)(A) with respect to foreign derived
intangible income, taking into account the other provisions
of section 250, that is allocated and apportioned to foreign
source income in the applicable separate category of
income. See Regulations section 1.861-8(e)(13).
Column 13(c). Enter the deduction allowed under
section 250(a)(1)(B) with respect to GILTI (section 951A
inclusion), taking into account the other provisions of
section 250, that is allocated and apportioned to foreign
source income in the applicable separate category of
income. See Regulations section 1.861-8(e)(14).
Column 13(d). Enter the depreciation, depletion, and
amortization deductions related to rental, royalty, and
licensing expenses that are allocated and apportioned to
foreign source income in the applicable separate category
of income.
Column 13(e). Enter the other allocable expenses
related to rental, royalty, and licensing expenses that are
12

allocated and apportioned to foreign source income in the
applicable separate category of income.
Column 13(f). Enter expenses allocable to gross income
from sales that are allocated and apportioned to foreign
source income in the applicable separate category of
income (the amount entered in column 7).
Column 13(g). Enter expenses allocable to gross
income from performance of services that are allocated
and apportioned to foreign source income in the
applicable separate category of income (the amount
entered in column 8).
Columns 13(h) and 13(i). Include any foreign source
exchange loss recognized under section 986(c) on a
distribution of PTEP, any foreign source exchange loss
recognized under section 987(3) on a remittance from a
QBU, and any foreign source exchange loss recognized
under section 988. Use a separate line for each type of
loss and enter the corresponding code in column 13(i).
See the instructions for Schedule A, column 9, earlier, for
the applicable codes.
Column 13(j). Include other deductions allocable to
income from sources outside the United States
(dividends, interest, etc.) for the applicable separate
category that are not otherwise included in Schedule H.
Include any reduction made in determining foreign
source capital gain net income. If capital gain net income
from sources outside the United States from all separate
categories is more than the capital gain net income
reported on the corporation’s tax return, enter a pro rata
portion of the excess in each separate category. See
Capital Gains, earlier.
In column 13(j), do not include other expenses directly
allocable to dividends eligible for the dividends received
deduction under section 245A. Such directly allocable
expenses may include wire transfer, currency exchange,
and similar fees incurred in connection with the payment
of dividends eligible for the dividends received deduction
under section 245A. These expenses reduce taxable
income, but are not taken into account in computing the
foreign tax credit limitation. See section 904(b)(4).
Attach a schedule that lists all other deductions
included in column 13(j). The schedule should include
totals for each line in column 13(j) that has an entry.
Column 14. Enter only the apportioned share from the
applicable line of Schedule H, Part I, column (b); Part II,
column (f); and Part III, column (g) that relates to gross
income reported in columns 3 through 11 of Schedule A.
The applicable line of Schedule H, Part I, column (b) is the
amount on line 6a(7), 6b(7), 6c(7), 6d(7), or 6e(7) of
column (b) that corresponds with the category of income
for which the corporation is completing Form 1118. For
example, if the code entered on Schedule H, Part I, line 6a
is “PAS,” then enter the amount from line 6a(7), column (b)
on the Form 1118 that the corporation is completing for
the passive category of income (as indicated on line a at
the top of page 1 of Form 1118). The applicable line of
Schedule H, Part II, column (f) is the amount on line 3a(2),
3b(2), 3c(2), 3d(2), or 3e(2) of column (f) that corresponds
with the category of income for which the corporation is
completing Form 1118. For example, if the code entered
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

on Schedule H, Part II, line 3a is “PAS,” then enter the
amount from line 3a(2), column (f) on the Form 1118 that
the corporation is completing for the passive category of
income (as indicated on line a at the top of page 1 of Form
1118). The applicable line of Schedule H, Part III, column
(g) is the amount on line 2a(2), 2b(2), 2c(2), 2d(2), or
2e(2) of column (g) that corresponds with the category of
income for which the corporation is completing Form
1118. For example, if the code entered on Schedule H,
Part III, line 2a is “PAS,” then enter the amount from
line 2a(2), column (g) on the Form 1118 that the
corporation is completing for the passive category of
income (as indicated on line a at the top of page 1 of Form
1118).
It is not necessary to report the apportioned expenses
on a related-person or per-country basis. Therefore, only
enter an amount in the totals line of column 14.
Note: With respect to the apportionment of deductions
reported on Schedule H, Part II, the reduction required by
section 904(b)(4) in deductions relating to dividends
eligible for the dividends received deduction under section
245A is taken into account (for purposes of determining
foreign source income or loss in each separate category)
by carrying to Schedule A, column 14, only the amounts
on Schedule H, Part II, column (f), lines 3a(2), 3b(2),
3c(2), 3d(2), and 3e(2). Likewise, with respect to the
apportionment of deductions reported on Schedule H,
Part III, the reduction required by section 904(b)(4) in
deductions relating to dividends eligible for the dividends
received deduction under section 245A is taken into
account (for purposes of determining foreign source
income or loss in each separate category) by carrying to
Schedule A, column 14, only the amounts on Schedule H,
Part III, column (g), lines 2a(2), 2b(2), 2c(2), 2d(2), or
2e(2).
Column 15. Enter the corporation’s NOL deduction
allowed under section 172 that is attributable to foreign
source income in the applicable separate category. If the
NOL is part of an overall foreign loss, see Regulations
section 1.904(g)-3 for allocation rules that apply in
determining the amount to enter in column 15.
It is not necessary to report the NOL deduction on a
related-person or per-country basis. Therefore, only enter
an amount on the totals line of column 15. See Net
operating losses, earlier.

Schedule B
Part I—Foreign Taxes Paid, Accrued, and
Deemed Paid

Report only foreign income taxes paid, accrued, or
deemed paid for the separate category for which this
Form 1118 is being completed. Report all amounts in U.S.
dollars. If the corporation must convert from foreign
currency, attach a schedule showing the amounts in
foreign currency and the exchange rate used.
For corporations claiming the credit on the accrual
basis, the exchange rate for translating foreign income
taxes into U.S. dollars will generally be an average
exchange rate for the tax year to which the taxes relate.
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

However, the exchange rate on the date of payment must
be used if the foreign income taxes (a) are paid more than
24 months after the close of the tax year to which they
relate, or (b) are paid in a tax year prior to the tax year to
which they relate. In addition, corporations may elect to
use the exchange rate on the date of payment.
Corporations may elect to use the payment date exchange
rates for all creditable foreign income taxes or only those
taxes that are attributable to QBUs with U.S. dollar
functional currencies. The election is made by attaching a
statement to a timely filed (including extensions) Form
1118 that indicates the corporation is making the election
under section 986(a)(1)(D). Once made, the election
applies for all subsequent tax years and is revocable only
with the consent of the IRS. See section 986(a)(1)(D).
Caution: The information entered on each line of
Schedule B, Part I, must pertain to an identifying number
and/or country code specified on the corresponding line of
Schedule A, column 1(a) and/or column 2. If foreign tax
was paid to more than one country on the same income,
enter the letter corresponding to that income on multiple
lines. For example, if the taxpayer entered on Schedule A,
line A, foreign source sales income and paid tax to both
Country A and Country B on such income, the filer would
complete two lines A on Schedule B with the tax paid to
Country A on one line and the tax paid to Country B on the
other line.
Column 1. Claim the foreign tax credit for the tax year in
which the taxes were paid or accrued, depending on the
method of accounting used.
Note: For any given tax year, the corporation can use the
cash method or the accrual method, but not both. If a
credit for taxes accrued is claimed, show both the date
accrued and the date paid.
If the cash method of accounting is used, an election
under section 905(a) may be made to claim the credit
based on accrued taxes.
To make this election, check the “Accrued” box in
column 1. Once made, the election is binding on all
subsequent tax years in which a foreign tax credit is
claimed. Also, the credits for foreign taxes, regardless of
whether they are claimed on the accrual or cash basis, are
subject to the redetermination provisions of section
905(c). See Foreign Tax Credit Redeterminations, earlier,
for details.
Column 2(a). Include foreign income taxes withheld at
source on dividends from a first-tier foreign corporation.
After December 31, 2017, such taxes are not creditable to
the extent the distribution is a dividend eligible for a
dividends received deduction under section 245A.
However, continue to report the taxes in this column 2(a)
and reverse the taxes on Schedule G.
Column 2(b)(1). Include foreign income taxes withheld
at source on PTEP distributions from a first-tier foreign
corporation. See sections 901 and 903. Do not include
foreign income taxes withheld at source on PTEP
distributions from a lower-tier foreign corporation to an
upper-tier foreign corporation and then deemed paid by
the domestic corporation under section 960(b)(1) on a
distribution from the upper-tier foreign corporation to the
13

domestic corporation. These amounts are reported on
Schedule E.
Note: With respect to taxes attributable to section 965(a)
PTEP, section 965(b) PTEP, or section 951A PTEP, do not
reduce the taxes by the foreign tax credit disallowance
under sections 965(g) and 960(d)(4), as applicable. The
disallowance is taken into account in Schedule E, Part I,
columns 15 and 16 and Schedule G.
Column 2(b)(2). Enter the PTEP group code associated
with the column 2(a) line amount. The PTEP group codes
are detailed below under the instructions for Schedule E,
Part I, column 5.
Column 2(c). Include foreign income taxes withheld on
branch distributions or transfers as determined under
section 987. See sections 901 and 903.
Column 2(f). Include foreign income taxes withheld at
source on income not specifically reportable in columns
2(a) through 2(e). For example, some countries withhold
at source on sales of stock of their resident companies
and such foreign income tax paid or accrued by the
domestic corporate seller would be reported in column
2(f).
Column 2(g). Include foreign income taxes paid or
accrued on the portion of sales income sourced to a
foreign country. This does not include taxes withheld at
source reported in column (f).
Column 3. Enter in column 3 the total of the taxes
deemed paid that corresponds with the identifying number
specified on the corresponding line of Schedule A, column
1(a), with respect to the following amounts.
• The taxes deemed paid under section 960(a) as
reported in Schedule C, column 10.
• The taxes deemed paid under section 960(b) as
reported in Schedule E, Part I, column 11.
Enter on the Schedule B, Part I line, that corresponds
with the Schedule A line with “951A” in column 2 the tax
deemed paid under section 960(d) equal to the total
amount reported in Schedule D, Part II, column 4.

Part II—Separate Foreign Tax Credit
Line 1b. If the corporation had a foreign tax credit
splitting event in a prior tax year that resulted in a
suspension of foreign taxes under section 909, enter the
amount of those taxes attributable to related income taken
into account in the current tax year. The amount of taxes
suspended in a prior tax year should have appeared on
Schedule G, line E, on your Form 1118 for that prior tax
year. See the regulations under section 909 for rules for
determining when related income is taken into account
and the amount of previously suspended taxes that are
attributable to that related income.
Line 4. If the corporation is reclassifying high-taxed
income from passive category income, enter the related
tax adjustment on line 4. Indicate whether the adjustment
is positive or (negative).
Line 5. Enter the total amount of foreign income taxes
carried forward or back to the current year. The amount of
foreign income taxes carried forward to the current tax
year is the amount from Schedule K (Form 1118), line 3,
14

column (xiv), plus the amount from Schedule I (Form
1118), Part III, line 3. Attach Schedule I (Form 1118) and
Schedule K (Form 1118) to Form 1118.
Line 7. If the corporation has a current-year overall
domestic loss or recapture of an overall domestic loss
account, or, in any of its separate categories, a
current-year separate limitation loss, an overall foreign
loss, recapture of an overall foreign loss, or current-year
separate limitation income in a category in which it has a
beginning balance of income that must be
recharacterized, adjustments must be made. See the
separate Instructions for Schedule J (Form 1118) to
determine if that schedule must be filed.
Line 8b. Enter as a positive amount taxable income that
should not be taken into account in computing the foreign
tax credit limitation. These adjustments will decrease the
net worldwide income reported on line 8c (see the line 8c
instructions, later).
Enter as a negative amount adjustments that increase
the net worldwide taxable income reported on line 8c (see
the line 8c instructions, later). For example, the net
worldwide taxable income you report on line 8c should not
include expenses allocated and apportioned to dividends
for which a dividends received deduction is allowed under
section 245A (see section 904(b)(4)). Because the line 8a
amount (taxable income from your tax return) includes
these expenses, a positive adjustment is needed to back
out these expenses (thus increasing the net worldwide
taxable income reported on line 8c). As such, include as a
negative adjustment on line 8b these expense amounts
from Schedule H, Part II, lines 5 and 6.
Line 8c. If the negative adjustments included on line 8b
(such as those amounts coming in from Schedule H, Part
II, lines 5 and 6) exceed any positive adjustments that are
also included on line 8b, the net line 8b adjustment will be
negative. When this net negative amount on line 8b is
subtracted from a positive taxable income amount on
line 8a, the result will be a positive line 8c amount that is
larger than the positive amount on line 8a.
Line 9. Divide line 7 by line 8c to determine the limitation
fraction. Enter the fraction on line 9 as a decimal with the
same number of places as the number of digits to the left
of the decimal in adjusted taxable income on line 8c. For
example, if adjusted taxable income on line 8c is
$100,000, compute the limitation fraction to 6 decimal
places.
Line 12. The limitation may be increased under section
960(c) for any tax year that the domestic corporation
receives a PTEP distribution. Enter on line 12 the increase
described in section 960(c)(1).
If the line 12 amount exceeds the domestic
corporation’s U.S. income tax liability, the excess is
deemed an overpayment and can be claimed on the
domestic corporation’s income tax return as a refundable
credit (Form 1120, Schedule J, line 20z, or the
corresponding line of other corporate income tax returns).
See section 960(c)(5).

Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

Part III—Summary of Separate Credits

Complete Part III only once. Enter on lines 1 through 6 the
separate foreign tax credits from Part II, line 14, for each
applicable separate category.
Note: Complete Part III only on the Form 1118 with the
largest amount entered on Part II, line 14.
Line 9. If the corporation participates in or cooperates
with an international boycott, the foreign tax credit may be
reduced. Complete Form 5713, International Boycott
Report. If the corporation chooses to apply the
international boycott factor to calculate the reduction in the
credit, enter the amount from line 2a(3) of Schedule C
(Form 5713) on line 9.

Schedule C

Report taxes deemed paid by the domestic corporation
under section 960(a) with respect to inclusions under
section 951(a)(1). This schedule should be completed by
separate category of income and subpart F income group.
If there is a subpart F inclusion related to more than one
subpart F income group, complete a separate line for each
subpart F income group.
An individual (or an estate or trust) that has made an
election under section 962 (“section 962 elector”) should
also complete Schedule C and report taxes deemed paid.
Column 1a. Enter the name of the foreign corporation
whose earnings were included in income by the domestic
corporation filing the return.
Column 1b. Enter the foreign corporation’s EIN or
reference ID number. See Reference ID numbers, earlier.
Note: Taxpayers no longer have the option of entering
“FOREIGNUS” or “APPLIED FOR” in this column. Instead,
if the foreign corporation does not have an EIN, the
taxpayer must use a reference ID number that uniquely
identifies such foreign corporation, using the rules set
forth in Reference ID numbers, in the Requirements
section, earlier.
Column 1c. Enter the tested unit’s reference ID number
(if applicable). See Reference ID numbers, earlier.
Complete column 1c only if a CFC has one or more tested
units with passive category income. See Regulations
section 1.904-4(c)(4).
Note: Taxpayers no longer have the option of entering
“FOREIGNUS” or “APPLIED FOR” in this column. Instead,
if the tested unit (or the CFC, if applicable) does not have
an EIN, the taxpayer must use a reference ID number that
uniquely identifies such tested unit (or the CFC, if
applicable), using the rules set forth in Reference ID
numbers, in the Requirements section, earlier.
Column 2. Enter the year and month in which the foreign
corporation’s U.S. tax year ended using format YYYYMM.
Example. When figuring foreign taxes deemed paid in
2025 by a calendar year domestic corporation with
respect to inclusions out of E&P not previously taxed for
the foreign corporation’s tax year that ended November
30, 2025, enter “202511.”
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

Column 3. Enter the applicable two-letter code from the
list at IRS.gov/CountryCodes.
Column 4. Enter the applicable three-character alphabet
code for the foreign corporation’s functional currency
using the ISO 4217 standard.
Column 5(a). Enter the code which describes the
subpart F income group classification (as set forth in
Regulations section 1.960-1(d)(2)(ii)(B)(2)). Please enter
the applicable code from the following list.
Code

Subpart F Income Group (Regulations section
1.960-1(d)(2)(ii)(B)(2))

DIRRA

Dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and annuities

NGCPT

Net gain from certain property transactions

NGCT

Net gain from commodities transactions

NFCG

Net foreign currency gain

IEQI

Income equivalent to interest

NPC

Income from notional principal contracts

PILOD

Payments in lieu of dividends

PSC

Personal service contracts

FBCSA

Foreign base company sales income

FBCSE

Foreign base company services income

FIFBC

Full inclusion foreign base company income

INSUR

Insurance income described in section 952(a)(1)

BOYC

Boycott income

BKOP

Bribes, kickbacks, and other payments described in
section 952(a)(4)

901J

Income subject to section 901(j) described in section
952(a)(5)

Column 5(b). Enter the code which describes the
subpart F income group classification (as set forth in
Regulations section 1.904-4(c)(3)(i) through (iv)). Please
enter the applicable code from the following list.
Code

Subpart F Income Group (Regulations section
1.904-4(c)(3)(i) through (iv))

i

All passive income received during the tax year
that is subject to a withholding tax of 15% or
greater.

ii

All passive income received during the tax year
that is subject to a withholding tax of less than
15% (but greater than zero).

iii

All passive income received during the tax year
that is subject to no withholding tax or other
foreign tax.

iv

All passive income received during the tax year
that is subject to no withholding tax but is subject
to a foreign tax other than a withholding tax.

Column 5(c). Enter the name of the tested unit.
Complete column 5(c) only if a CFC has one or more
tested units with passive category income. See
Regulations section 1.904-4(c)(4).
15

Column 6. Enter the total net income in the subpart F
income group (identified in columns 5(a) and 5(b)) in the
functional currency of the foreign corporation. If there is
net income related to more than one subpart F income
group, use a separate line for each subpart F income
group. In general, the amount entered on a given line will
be equal to the total of all amounts in column (xvi) of
Schedule Q (Form 5471) for the subpart F income group
identified in Schedule C, column 5 for the foreign
corporation identified in column 1 and for the category of
income with respect to which a Form 1118 and the
corresponding Schedule Q (Form 5471) are being
completed.
Column 7. Enter the total eligible current-year taxes in
the subpart F income group (identified in columns 5(a)
and 5(b)) in U.S. dollars.
Note: See the instructions for Schedule G, later, for
information on reduction of foreign taxes for failure to
furnish information required under section 6038.
Column 8(a). Enter the section 951(a)(1) inclusion
attributable to the subpart F income group (identified in
columns 5(a) and 5(b)) in the functional currency of the
foreign corporation.
Column 8(b). Enter the amount from column 8(a)
translated into U.S. dollars at the appropriate exchange
rate specified in section 989(b).
Column 10. For each line, multiply the amount in column
7 by the amount in column 9 and enter the result in column
10. This is the tax deemed paid computed under section
960(a).
Example 1. USC is a domestic corporation. CFC is a
controlled foreign corporation incorporated in Country X.
CFC has two tested units, each of which is a qualified
business unit (QBU): QBU1 and QBU2. QBU1 and QBU2
are organized in Country X. The U.S. tax year for USC,
CFC, QBU1, and QBU2 ends on December 31. The
functional currency of CFC, QBU1, and QBU2 is the “u.” At
all relevant times, 1u = $1. For its U.S. tax year ending
December 31, 2025, after foreign taxes, QBU1 has
1,000,000u passive category dividend income subject to a
less than 15% withholding tax (“QBU1 income group 1”).
QBU1 has 1,000,000u passive category dividend income
subject to a greater than 15% withholding tax (“QBU1
income group 2”). QBU2 has 2,400,000u passive
category dividend income subject to a less than 15%
withholding tax (“QBU2 income group”). QBU1 has
eligible current-year taxes of $50,000 and $200,000 in
QBU1 income group 1 and QBU1 income group 2,
respectively. QBU2 has eligible current-year taxes of
$240,000 in QBU2 income group. USC has a subpart F
inclusion with respect to CFC of which an amount of
800,000u is attributable to each of QBU1 income group 1
and QBU1 income group 2 and 1,920,000u is attributable
to QBU2 income group. The country code for Country X is
“OC.” CFC, QBU1, and QBU2 have reference ID numbers
of 100000, 100011, and 100012, respectively. The
applicable three-character alphabet code for the “u” using
the ISO 4217 standard is “UUU.” USC completes
Schedule C of its Form 1118 with respect to the passive
category as follows.
16

USC makes the following entries on the first of three
lines on Schedule C.
Column

Entry

1a

CFC

1b

100000

1c

100011

2

202512

3

OC

4

UUU

5(a)

DIRRA

5(b)

ii

5(c)

QBU1

6

1,000,000u

7

50,000

8(a)

800,000u

8(b)

800,000

9

0.800

10

40,000

USC makes the following entries on the second of three
lines on Schedule C.
Column

Entry

1a

CFC

1b

100000

1c

100011

2

202512

3

OC

4

UUU

5(a)

DIRRA

5(b)

i

5(c)

QBU1

6

1,000,000u

7

200,000

8(a)

800,000u

8(b)

800,000

9

0.800

10

160,000

USC makes the following entries on the third of three
lines on Schedule C.

Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

Column

Entry

1a

CFC1

100000

1b

100011

1c

100012

1c

2

202512

2

3

OC

3

OC

4

UUU

4

UUU

5(a)

DIRRA

5(a)

DIRRA

5(b)

ii

5(b)

ii

5(c)

QBU2

5(c)

6

2,400,000u

6

1,000,000u

7

240,000

7

50,000

8(a)

1,920,000u

8(a)

800,000u

8(b)

1,920,000

8(b)

800,000

9

0.800

9

0.800

10

192,000

10

40,000

Column

Entry

1a

CFC

1b

Example 2. USC is a domestic corporation. CFC1 and
CFC2 are controlled foreign corporations incorporated in
Country X. The U.S. tax year for USC, CFC1, and CFC2
ends on December 31. At all relevant times, 1u = $1. For
its U.S. tax year ending December 31, 2025, after foreign
taxes, CFC1 has 1,000,000u passive category dividend
income subject to a withholding tax of less than 15%
(“CFC1 income group 1”) and 2,400,000u passive
category interest income subject to foreign tax other than
withholding tax (“CFC1 income group 2”). CFC1 has
eligible current-year taxes (including the withholding tax)
of $50,000 in CFC1 income group 1 and $240,000 in
CFC1 income group 2. USC has a subpart F inclusion with
respect to CFC1 of which 800,000u is attributable to
CFC1 income group 1 and 1,920,000u is attributable to
CFC1 income group 2. For its U.S. tax year ending
December 31, 2025, after foreign taxes, CFC2 has
1,800,000u of passive category gain from commodities
transactions subject to foreign tax other than withholding
tax (“CFC2 income group”). CFC2 has eligible
current-year taxes of $450,000 in the CFC2 income group.
USC has a subpart F inclusion of 1,440,000u attributable
to the CFC2 income group. The country code for Country
X is “OC.” CFC1 and CFC2 have reference ID numbers of
100011 and 100012, respectively. The functional currency
of both CFC1 and CFC2 is the “u.” The applicable
three-character alphabet code for the “u” using the ISO
4217 standard is “UUU.” USC completes Schedule C of its
Form 1118 with respect to the passive category as
follows.
USC makes the following entries on the first of three
lines on Schedule C.

Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

202512

USC makes the following entries on the second of three
lines on Schedule C.
Column

Entry

1a

CFC1

1b

100011

1c
2

202512

3

OC

4

UUU

5(a)

DIRRA

5(b)

iv

5(c)
6

2,400,000u

7

240,000

8(a)

1,920,000u

8(b)

1,920,000

9

0.800

10

192,000

USC makes the following entries on the third of three
lines on Schedule C.

17

Column

Entry

1a

CFC2

1b

100012

1c
2

202512

3

OC

4

UUU

5(a)

NGCT

5(b)

iv

5(c)
6

1,800,000u

7

450,000

8(a)

1,440,000u

8(b)

1,440,000

9

0.800

10

360,000

Schedule D

Report taxes deemed paid under section 960(d) with
respect to inclusions under section 951A. This schedule
should only be completed with respect to the Form 1118
filed for the section 951A category, and, in rare cases, the
passive category.
Schedule D is generally completed by a domestic
corporation that owns, within the meaning of section
958(a), stock in one or more CFCs that claims taxes
deemed paid with respect to inclusions under section
951A.
Schedule D is also generally completed by an
individual (or an estate or trust) that has made an election
under section 962 (“section 962 elector”).
If more than one line is needed in Part II:

• In Part II, column 2, the same denominator will be used

(the Part I, column 5 total) in the inclusion percentage
calculation for each line; and
• In Part II, column 3, the same multiplication factor will be
used (the Part I, column 9 total) for each line.
If more than one line is completed in Part II, the column
4 amounts should be summed and included on a single
line on Form 1118, Schedule B, Part I, column 3 (that is,
the line on Schedule B, Part I, column 3, that corresponds
with the line in Schedule A with “951A” in column 2 of
Schedule A).

Part I—Foreign Corporation’s Tested Income
and Foreign Taxes
Column 1a. Enter the name of each CFC that has tested
income, as defined in section 951A(c)(2)(A). Do not report
information of CFCs with tested losses, as defined in
section 951A(c)(2)(B).
Column 1b. Enter the EIN or reference ID number of the
foreign corporation. See Reference ID numbers, earlier.
18

Note: Taxpayers no longer have the option of entering
“FOREIGNUS” or “APPLIED FOR” in this column. Instead,
if the foreign corporation does not have an EIN, the
taxpayer must use a reference ID number that uniquely
identifies such foreign corporation, using the rules set
forth in Reference ID numbers, in the Requirements
section, earlier.
Column 2. Enter the year and month in which the CFC’s
U.S. tax year ended using the format YYYYMM.
Column 3. Enter the applicable two-letter code from the
list at IRS.gov/CountryCodes.
Column 4. Enter the applicable three-character alphabet
code for the foreign corporation’s functional currency
using the ISO 4217 standard.
Column 5. Enter the U.S. shareholder’s pro rata share of
the CFC’s tested income from the applicable Form 8992
schedule. If the U.S. shareholder is not a member of a
U.S. consolidated group, enter the amount reported in
Schedule A (Form 8992), column (e), for the CFC. If the
U.S. shareholder is a member of a U.S. consolidated
group, enter the amount reported with respect to that U.S.
shareholder in Schedule B (Form 8992), Part I, column
(g), for the CFC.
If the domestic corporation is a partner in a partnership,
enter the domestic corporate partner’s pro rata share of
CFC tested income from Schedule K-3, Part VIII, line 3.
Column 6. Enter the CFC’s tested income from the
applicable Form 8992 schedule. If the U.S. shareholder is
not a member of a U.S. consolidated group, enter the
amount reported in Schedule A (Form 8992), column (c),
for the CFC. If the U.S. shareholder is a member of a U.S.
consolidated group, enter the amount reported with
respect to that U.S. shareholder in Schedule B (Form
8992), Part I, column (e), for the CFC.
Column 8. Enter the CFC’s tested foreign income taxes
from Schedule Q (Form 5471), line 3, column (xii).
Column 9. Enter the pro rata share of tested foreign
income taxes paid or accrued by the CFC. To determine
this amount, multiply the amount in column 7 by the
amount in column 8.
Note: See the instructions for Schedule G, later, for
information on reduction of foreign taxes for failure to
furnish information required under section 6038.

Part II—Foreign Income Tax Deemed Paid

Note: While multiple line entries may be necessary for
Schedule D, Part I, because such lines are completed for
each CFC, in general, only one line will be completed in
Schedule D, Part II, because the domestic corporation
filing Form 1118 only has one section 951A inclusion.
However, there is an exception if Form 1118 is completed
by an individual (or by an estate or trust) that has made an
election under section 962 (“section 962 elector”) and the
section 962 elector is a shareholder of an S corporation
that has made an election to treat the S corporation as an
entity (rather than as an aggregate of its owners), as
provided in Notice 2020-69, 2020-39 I.R.B. 604, on a
timely (including extensions) filed original Form 1120-S
with respect to the first tax year ending on or after
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

September 1, 2020. In this case, the section 962 elector
may have more than one section 951A inclusion that will
be reported on separate lines on Schedule D, Part II.
There might be multiple lines as a result of (1) the section
962 elector’s section 951A inclusion, and (2) the section
962 elector’s share of the section 951A inclusion of the S
corporation. There could also be multiple lines if the
section 962 elector has an interest in more than one S
corporation.
Column 1. Enter the GILTI (that is, the section 951A
inclusion) from Form 8992, Part II, line 5.
Column 3. This amount as determined on this line is the
section 78 gross-up with respect to an inclusion under
section 951A which is reported on Form 1118,
Schedule A, column 3(b).

Schedule E

Report taxes paid, accrued, and deemed paid by the
domestic corporation under section 901 and 960(b) with
respect to PTEP distributions. Foreign withholding taxes
levied on a domestic corporation as a result of
distributions of PTEP from a first-tier foreign corporation to
such domestic corporation are reported on Schedule E,
Part I, column 14. Such taxes are also reported on
Schedule B, Part I, column 2(b)(1), as tax withheld on
distributions of PTEP. Also, reported on this schedule are
foreign income taxes levied on distributions of PTEP from
a lower-tier foreign corporation to an upper-tier foreign
corporation which are subsequently deemed paid under
section 960(b)(1) by the domestic corporation upon
distribution of such PTEP by the upper-tier foreign
corporation to the domestic corporation.

Part I—Taxes Paid, Accrued, and Deemed Paid
by Domestic Corporation
Column 1a. Enter the name of each first-tier foreign
corporation that made PTEP distributions to a domestic
corporation with respect to which foreign income taxes
were paid, accrued, or deemed paid by the domestic
corporation (and that were not previously deemed paid by
a domestic corporation). For distributions of PTEP that
originated in lower-tier foreign corporations, enter a
unique alphabetic character before the name of the
distributing foreign corporation to identify the source of the
PTEP distribution. See the instructions for Part II, column
1a, for more information, including an example.
Column 1b. Enter the EIN or reference ID number of the
foreign corporation. See Reference ID numbers, earlier.
Note: Taxpayers no longer have the option of entering
“FOREIGNUS” or “APPLIED FOR” in this column. Instead,
if the foreign corporation does not have an EIN, the
taxpayer must use a reference ID number that uniquely
identifies such foreign corporation, using the rules set
forth in Reference ID numbers, in the Requirements
section, earlier.
Column 2. Enter the year and month for the U.S. tax year
of the first-tier foreign corporation in which the first-tier
foreign corporation made the PTEP distribution to the
domestic corporation. Use the format YYYYMM. If there is
a PTEP distribution related to more than one PTEP group
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

within an annual PTEP account, complete a separate line
for each PTEP group within an annual PTEP account. See
Regulations section 1.960-3(c)(2).
Column 3. Enter the applicable two-letter code from the
list at IRS.gov/CountryCodes.
Column 4. Enter the applicable three-character
alphabetic code for the distributing foreign corporation’s
functional currency using the ISO 4217 standard.
Column 5. Enter the code which describes the PTEP
group classification (as set forth in Regulations section
1.960-3(c)(2)). Please enter the applicable PTEP group
code from the following list.
Taxes related to previously taxed E&P

PTEP Group
Code

Reclassified section 965(a) PTEP

R965a

Reclassified section 965(b) PTEP

R965b

General section 959(c)(1) PTEP

959c1

Reclassified section 951A PTEP

R951A

Reclassified section 245A(d) PTEP

R245Ad

Section 965(a) PTEP

965a

Section 965(b) PTEP

965b

Section 951A PTEP

951A

Section 245A(d) PTEP

245Ad

Section 951(a)(1)(A) PTEP

951a1A

Column 6. Enter the inclusion year for the PTEP of the
foreign corporation to which section 951(a) and section
951A inclusion amounts of U.S. shareholders are
attributable. This is the annual PTEP account. See
Regulations section 1.960-3(c)(1).
Column 7. Enter the total amount of the foreign
corporation’s PTEP in the PTEP group within an annual
PTEP account identified in columns 5 and 6. Enter the
amount in the functional currency of the first-tier foreign
corporation.
Column 8. Enter the total amount of the foreign
corporations’ PTEP group taxes with respect to the PTEP
group within the annual PTEP account identified in
columns 5 and 6. Enter the amount in U.S. dollars.
Column 9. Enter the PTEP distribution from the PTEP
group within the annual PTEP account identified in
columns 5 and 6 in the functional currency of the first-tier
foreign corporation. If there is a PTEP distribution related
to more than one PTEP group within an annual PTEP
account, complete a separate line for each PTEP group
within an annual PTEP account.
Column 11. For each line, multiply the amount in column
8 by the amount in column 10. This is the U.S. dollar
amount of the foreign income taxes properly attributable to
the PTEP distribution reported in column 9 and not
deemed to have been paid by the domestic corporation for
the tax year or any prior tax year.
Note: With respect to distributions of PTEP resulting from
inclusions under section 965, or section 951A, report the
19

foreign income taxes properly attributable to such PTEP
under section 960(b)(1) without reduction for the foreign
tax credit disallowance under sections 965(g) and 960(d)
(4), as applicable. The disallowance is taken into account
in columns 12 and 13 and Schedule G. See the specific
instructions for Schedule G, later.
Column 12. Report the amount disallowed under the
section 965(g) applicable percentage with respect to the
taxes deemed paid under section 960(b)(1) identified in
column 11.
Column 13. Report the amount disallowed under section
960(d)(4) with respect to the taxes deemed paid under
section 960(b)(1) identified in column 11.
Column 14. Report the foreign income taxes paid or
accrued with respect to distributions of PTEP from a
first-tier foreign corporation to a domestic corporation that
are creditable under section 901. For each line in
Schedule E, Part I, also include the column 14 amount in
column 2(b)(1) of the line in Schedule B, Part I, that
corresponds with the identifying number specified in
column 1(a) of Schedule A and that also corresponds with
the identifying number specified in column 1b of this
Schedule E, Part I.
Note: With respect to distributions of PTEP resulting from
inclusions under section 965 or section 951A, report the
foreign income taxes paid or accrued with respect to such
PTEP distributions (that are creditable under section 901)
without reduction for the foreign tax credit disallowance
under sections 965(g) and 960(d)(4), as applicable. The
disallowance is taken into account in columns 15 and 16
and Schedule G. See the specific instructions for
Schedule G, later.
Column 15. Report the amount disallowed under the
section 965(g) applicable percentage with respect to the
taxes paid or accrued under section 901 identified in
column 14.
Column 16. Report the amount disallowed under section
960(d)(4) with respect to the taxes paid or accrued under
section 901 identified in column 14.
Note: The totals reported for columns 12 and 15 with
respect to the section 965(g) disallowance are reported on
Schedule G, line F. The totals reported for columns 13 and
16 with respect to the section 960(d)(4) disallowance are
reported on Schedule G, line H.

Part II—Tax Deemed Paid by First- and
Lower-Tier Foreign Corporations

The purpose of Part II is to track the current-year and
historical PTEP distributions between foreign corporations
and taxes paid, accrued, or deemed paid by upper-tier
foreign corporations on such PTEP distributions. These
amounts are to be reported on this Part II only to the
extent that there is a PTEP distribution to the domestic
corporation entered in Part I. The amounts entered in Part
II could relate to current-year or prior-year PTEP
distributions between foreign corporations, so the
applicable year should be noted in column 2 using the
format YYYYMM.

20

If foreign income taxes paid, accrued, or deemed paid
by a first-tier foreign corporation are properly attributable
to a PTEP distribution from one or more lower-tier foreign
corporations, report all such PTEP distributions by the
lower-tier foreign corporations in Part II, even if the
distributing lower-tier foreign corporations did not pay or
accrue (and were not deemed to pay) any foreign income
taxes with respect to the PTEP distributions. For each tier,
report the amount of the PTEP distribution from the
first-tier foreign corporation that is attributable to a PTEP
distribution from the lower-tier foreign corporation and the
amount of foreign income taxes paid, accrued, or deemed
paid by that lower-tier foreign corporation with respect to
that portion of the PTEP distribution. Because only eligible
current-year tax paid or accrued by a CFC with respect to
its receipt of a PTEP distribution from a lower-tier foreign
corporation is eligible to be treated as deemed paid under
section 960(b), no foreign income taxes of the lowest-tier
foreign corporation to which the PTEP distribution is
attributable are properly attributable to a PTEP distribution
made to an upper-tier foreign corporation. See
Regulations section 1.960-1(d)(3)(ii)(C).
Column 1a. Enter the name of each lower-tier foreign
corporation that distributed PTEP to an upper-tier foreign
corporation, in the current year or a prior year, that in turn
was distributed in the current year to a domestic
corporation. In column 1a, preceding the name of the
distributing lower-tier foreign corporation, enter a unique
alphabetic character that corresponds to a PTEP
distribution reported in Part I. For example, in the case of a
PTEP distribution from CFC3, third-tier foreign
corporation, to CFC2, second-tier foreign corporation, to
CFC1, first-tier foreign corporation, to USP, a domestic
corporation, the domestic corporation correlates the
distributions as follows.
Part I, column 1a. Enter “A CFC1” (to report
distribution from CFC1 to domestic corporation sourced
from PTEP distributions from CFC2 and CFC3).
Part II, column 1a. Enter “A CFC2” (to report
distribution from CFC2 to CFC1), and enter “A CFC3” (to
report distribution from CFC3 to CFC2).
Column 1b. Enter the EIN or reference ID number of the
distributing foreign corporation. See Reference ID
numbers, earlier.
Note: Taxpayers no longer have the option of entering
“FOREIGNUS” or “APPLIED FOR” in this column. Instead,
if the distributing foreign corporation does not have an
EIN, the taxpayer must use a reference ID number that
uniquely identifies such foreign corporation, using the
rules set forth in Reference ID numbers, in the
Requirements section, earlier.
Column 2. Enter the U.S. tax year of the distributing
foreign corporation which includes the date when the
foreign corporation distributed the PTEP to the upper-tier
foreign corporation.
Note: If the PTEP distributed in Part I relates to PTEP
distributions from lower-tier foreign corporations made in
more than one tax year, figure and show the tax deemed
paid on a separate line for each distribution.

Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

Column 3. Enter the applicable two-letter code from the
list at IRS.gov/CountryCodes.

properly attributable to PTEP distributions resulting from
inclusions under section 965 or section 951A.

Column 4b. Enter the EIN or reference ID number of the
recipient foreign corporation. See Reference ID numbers,
earlier.

Note: See the instructions for Schedule G, later, for
information on reduction of foreign taxes for failure to
furnish information required under section 6038.

Note: Taxpayers no longer have the option of entering
“FOREIGNUS” or “APPLIED FOR” in this column. Instead,
if the recipient foreign corporation does not have an EIN,
the taxpayer must use a reference ID number that
uniquely identifies such foreign corporation, using the
rules set forth in Reference ID numbers, in the
Requirements section, earlier.

Example 1. USC, a domestic corporation, wholly owns
CFC1, a Country Y corporation, which wholly owns
Country X corporations CFC2 and CFC3. The U.S. tax
year for USC, CFC1, CFC2, and CFC3 ends on December
31. During the U.S. tax year ending December 31, 2025,
CFC2 and CFC3, both second-tier CFCs, each distribute
100u, comprising all of their respective section 965(a)
PTEP within the annual PTEP account for the 2017 tax
year (“2017 section 965(a) PTEP”) within the general
category, to CFC1, a first-tier CFC. CFC1 pays 40u equal
to $40 of eligible current-year taxes to Country X on the
200u PTEP distributions, reducing the 2017 section
965(a) PTEP to 160u. The applicable percentage under
section 965(g) with respect to the $40 of taxes is 0.6. In
that same year, CFC1 distributes all 160u of the 2017
section 965(a) PTEP to USC. USC pays no foreign tax on
such distribution. CFC1 does not have any other PTEP
balances. The reference ID numbers for CFC1, CFC2, and
CFC3 are 10041, 10042, and 10043, respectively. The
country codes for Country X and Country Y are OC and
BC, respectively. The functional currency of CFC1, CFC2,
and CFC3 is the “u.” The applicable three-character
alphabetic code for the “u” using the ISO 4217 standard is
“UUU.”

Column 5. Enter the U.S. tax year of the recipient foreign
corporation which includes the date the foreign
corporation received the PTEP distribution.
Column 6. Enter the applicable two-letter code from the
list at IRS.gov/CountryCodes.
Column 7. Enter the applicable three-character
alphabetic code for the distributing foreign corporation’s
functional currency using the ISO 4217 standard.
Column 8. Enter the applicable PTEP group code from
the list provided in the specific instructions for Schedule E,
Part I, column 5, earlier.
Column 9. Enter the annual PTEP account. See the
instructions for Schedule E, Part I, column 6, earlier.
Column 10. Enter the total amount of the foreign
corporation’s PTEP in the PTEP group within the annual
PTEP account identified in column 8 and column 9. Enter
such amount in the functional currency of the distributing
foreign corporation.
Column 11. Enter the total amount of the foreign
corporation’s PTEP group taxes with respect to the PTEP
group within the annual PTEP account identified in column
8 and column 9. Enter this amount in U.S. dollars. To
determine the appropriate translation rate, see section
986(a).
Column 12. Enter the PTEP distribution with respect to
the PTEP group within the annual PTEP account identified
in columns 8 and 9 in the functional currency of the
distributing foreign corporation. If there is a PTEP
distribution related to more than one PTEP group within
an annual PTEP account, complete a separate line for
each PTEP group within an annual PTEP account. Only
report the amount of PTEP attributable to the PTEP that
was ultimately distributed to the domestic corporation in
the current year, even if the amount of PTEP distributed to
the upper-tier foreign corporation was greater than that
amount.
Column 14. Enter the U.S. dollar amount of the recipient
foreign corporation’s income taxes paid, accrued, and
deemed paid that are properly attributable to the PTEP
distribution reported in column 12 and not deemed to
have been paid by the domestic corporation for any prior
tax year.
Note: See the Note in the instructions for Part I, column
11, for purposes of reporting foreign income taxes
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

USC makes the following entries on a single line on its
general category, Schedule E, Part I.
Column

Entry

1a

A CFC1

1b

10041

2

202512

3

BC

4

UUU

5

965a

6

2017

7

160u

8

40

9

160u

10

1.000

11

40

12

24

13

0

14

0

15

0

16

0

USC makes the following entries on the first of two lines
on Schedule E, Part II.

21

Column

Entry

1a

A CFC2

1b

10042

2

202512

3

OC

4a

CFC1

4b

10041

5

202512

6

BC

7

UUU

8

965a

9

2017

10

100u

11

0

12

100u

13

1.000

14

0

USC makes the following entries on the second of two
lines on Schedule E, Part II.

PTEP to 80u. The applicable percentage under section
965(g) with respect to the $20 of taxes is 0.6. In CFC2’s
U.S. tax year ending December 31, 2019, CFC2
distributes 40u of the 2017 section 965(a) PTEP to CFC1,
a CFC that wholly owns CFC2. CFC1 pays no tax on such
distribution, but is deemed to pay $10 of the eligible
current-year tax that was paid by CFC2 in 2017. In CFC1’s
U.S. tax year ending December 31, 2025, CFC1
distributes 40u to USC, who wholly owns CFC1. USC
pays no foreign tax on such distribution, but is deemed to
pay the $10 of eligible current-year tax that was paid by
CFC2 in 2017 and deemed paid by CFC1 in 2019. The
reference ID numbers for CFC1, CFC2, and CFC3 are
20041, 20042, and 20043, respectively. The country
codes for Country X and Country Y are OC and BC,
respectively. The functional currency of CFC1, CFC2, and
CFC3 is the “u.” The applicable three-character alphabetic
code for the “u” using the ISO 4217 standard is “UUU.”
Schedule E reporting is not necessary for USC’s tax
years ending December 31, 2018 to December 31, 2024.
For USC’s tax year ending December 31, 2025, USC
makes the following entries on a single line on its general
category Form 1118, Schedule E, Part I.
Column

Entry

1a

A CFC1

1b

20041
202512

Column

Entry

2

1a

A CFC3

3

OC

1b

10043

4

UUU

2

202512

5

965a

3

OC

6

2017

4a

CFC1

7

40u

4b

10041

8

10

5

202512

9

40u

6

BC

10

1.000

7

UUU

11

10

8

965a

12

6

9

2017

13

0

10

100u

14

0

11

0

15

0

12

100u

16

0

13

1.000

14

0

USC makes the following entries on the first of two lines
on Schedule E, Part II.

Example 2. USC is a domestic corporation. CFC1 and
CFC2 are Country X corporations, and CFC3 is a Country
Y corporation. The U.S. tax year for USC, CFC1, CFC2,
and CFC3 ends on December 31. During CFC3’s U.S. tax
year ending December 31, 2018, CFC3 distributes 100u,
comprising its entire section 965(a) PTEP within the
annual PTEP account for the 2017 tax year (“2017 section
965(a) PTEP”) within the general category, to CFC2, a
CFC that wholly owns CFC3. CFC2 pays eligible
current-year tax of 20u to Country X equal to $20 on the
100u PTEP distribution, reducing the 2017 section 965(a)
22

Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

Column

Entry

1a

A CFC2

1b

20042

2

201912

3

OC

4a

CFC1

4b

20041

5

201912

6

OC

7

UUU

8

965a

9

2017

10

80u

11

20

12

40u

13

0.500

14

10

USC makes the following entries on the second of two
lines on Schedule E, Part II.
Column

Entry

1a

A CFC3

1b

20043

2

201812

3

BC

4a

CFC2

4b

20042

5

201812

6

OC

7

UUU

8

965a

9

2017

10

100u

11

0

12

50u

13

0.500

14

0

the 2016 section 951(a)(1)(A) PTEP to 900u. In CFC2’s
tax year ending December 31, 2019, CFC2 distributes
250u, comprising all of its section 951A PTEP within the
annual PTEP account for the 2018 tax year (“2018 section
951A PTEP”) within the section 951A category, to CFC1, a
CFC that wholly owns CFC2. CFC1 pays eligible
current-year tax of 25u to Country X equal to $25 on the
250u PTEP distribution, reducing the 2018 section 951A
PTEP to 225u. During CFC2’s tax year ending December
31, 2025, CFC2 distributes 450u out of its 2016 section
951(a)(1)(A) PTEP balance of 900u to CFC1. CFC1 pays
eligible current-year tax of 45u to Country X equal to $45
on the 450u PTEP distribution, reducing the 2016 section
951(a)(1)(A) PTEP to 405u. CFC1 is also deemed to pay
$50 of the eligible current-year tax paid by CFC2 on its
receipt of the 2018 distribution of the PTEP from CFC3. In
the same year, CFC1 distributes 630u to USC, which
wholly owns CFC1. Such distribution includes all of
CFC1’s 2016 section 951(a)(1)(A) PTEP of 405u and
2018 section 951A PTEP of 225u. USC pays no foreign
tax on such distribution, but is deemed to pay $50 of the
eligible current-year tax deemed paid by CFC1 and $70
on the eligible current-year tax paid by CFC1 on the 2019
and 2025 distributions of the PTEP from CFC2.
The reference ID numbers for CFC1, CFC2, and CFC3
are 10041, 10042, and 10043, respectively. The country
codes for Country X, Country Y, and Country Z are OC,
CC, and BC, respectively. The functional currency of
CFC1, CFC2, and CFC3 is the “u.” The applicable
three-character alphabetic code for the “u” using the ISO
4217 standard is “UUU.”
Schedule E reporting is not necessary for USC’s tax
years ending December 31, 2018 to December 31, 2024.
For USC’s tax year ending December 31, 2025, USC
completes Form 1118, Schedule E, as follows:
USC makes the following entries on Schedule E, Part I,
with respect to general category income.

Example 3. USC is a domestic corporation. CFC1 is a
Country X corporation, CFC2 is a Country Y corporation,
and CFC3 is a Country Z corporation. The U.S. tax year of
USC, CFC1, CFC2, and CFC3 ends on December 31.
During CFC3’s U.S. tax year ending December 31, 2018,
CFC3 distributes 1,000u, comprising all of its subpart F
PTEP within the annual PTEP account for the 2016 tax
year (“2016 section 951(a)(1)(A) PTEP”) within the
general category, to CFC2, a CFC that wholly owns CFC3.
CFC2 pays eligible current-year tax of 100u to Country Y
equal to $100 on the 1,000u PTEP distribution, reducing
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

23

Column

Entry

Column

Entry

1a

A CFC1

1a

A CFC3

1b

10041

1b

10043

2

202512

2

201812

3

OC

3

BC

4

UUU

4a

CFC2

5

951a1A

4b

10042

6

2016

5

201812

7

405u

6

CC

8

95

7

UUU

9

405u

8

951a1A

10

1.000

9

2016

11

95

10

1000u

12

0

11

0

13

0

12

500u

14

0

13

0.500

15

0

14

0

16

0

USC makes the following entries on the first of two lines
on Schedule E, Part II, with respect to general category
income.

Column

Entry
B CFC1

Column

Entry

1a

1a

A CFC2

1b

10041

1b

10042

2

202512

2

202512

3

OC

3

CC

4

UUU

4a

CFC1

5

951A

4b

10041

6

2018

5

202512

7

225u

6

OC

8

25

7

UUU

9

225u

8

951a1A

10

1.000

9

2016

11

25

10

900u

12

0

11

100

13

0

12

450u

14

0

13

0.500

15

0

14

50

16

0

USC makes the following entries on the second of two
lines on Schedule E, Part II, with respect to general
category income.

24

USC makes the following entries on a line on
Schedule E, Part I, of its Form 1118, with respect to
section 951A category income.

USC makes the following entries on a line on
Schedule E, Part II, of its Form 1118, with respect to
section 951A category income.

Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

Column

Entry

1a

B CFC2

1b

10042

2

201912

3

CC

4a

CFC1

4b

10041

5

201912

6

OC

7

UUU

8

951A

9

2018

10

250u

11

0

12

250u

13

1.000

14

0

Schedule F

Reserved for future use.

Schedule G
Part I
Line A. If the corporation claims a deduction for
percentage depletion under section 613 with respect to
any part of its foreign mineral income (as defined in
section 901(e)(2)) for the tax year, any foreign taxes on
that income must be reduced by the smaller of:
1. The foreign taxes minus the tax on that income, or
2. The tax on that income determined without regard
to the deduction for percentage depletion minus the tax on
that income.
The reduction must be made on a country-by-country
basis (Regulations section 1.901-3(a)(1)). Attach a
separate schedule showing the reduction.
Line C. If the corporation chooses to calculate the
reduction in the foreign tax by identifying taxes specifically
attributable to participation in or cooperation with an
international boycott, enter the amount from Schedule C
(Form 5713), line 2b. See Form 5713 and its separate
Schedule C and instructions.
Line D. If the corporation controls a foreign corporation or
partnership and fails to furnish any return or any
information in any return required under section 6038(a)
by the due date, reduce the foreign income taxes available
for credit under sections 901 and 960 by 10%. If the failure
continues for 90 days or more after the date of written
notice by the IRS, reduce the tax by an additional 5% for
each 3-month period or fraction thereof during which the
failure continues after the 90-day period has expired. See
section 6038(c) for limitations and special rules.

Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

In addition, a $10,000 penalty is imposed under section
6038(b) for failure to supply the information required under
section 6038(a) for each entity within the time prescribed.
If the required information is not submitted within 90 days
after the IRS has mailed notice to the U.S. person,
additional penalties may apply.
Note: The reduction in foreign income taxes available for
credit is reduced by any dollar penalty imposed under
section 6038(b).
Line E. Enter foreign income taxes paid or accrued
during the current tax year that have been suspended due
to the rules of section 909.
Line F. Enter disallowed taxes under section 965(g).
These amounts should correspond to the total amounts
reported from Schedule E, Part I, columns 12 and 15.
Taxes paid or accrued with respect to distributions of
section 965(a) PTEP and section 965(b) PTEP must be
reduced by the relevant applicable percentage. See
Regulations section 1.965-5(b). Taxes deemed paid with
respect to distributions of section 965(a) PTEP and
section 965(b) PTEP must be reduced by the relevant
applicable percentage. See Regulations section
1.965-5(c)(1)(i) and (iii).
Line G. Enter disallowed taxes under section 245A. Such
disallowed taxes may also include, for example, gain on
certain sales of CFC stock treated as dividends. See
section 964(e)(4).
Line H. Enter disallowed taxes under section 960(d)(4).
These amounts should correspond to the total amounts
reported from Schedule E, Part I, columns 13 and 16.
Section 960(d)(4) disallows a foreign tax credit under
section 901 for 10% of any foreign income taxes paid or
accrued (or deemed paid under section 960(b)(1)) with
respect to section 959(a) distributions, to the extent the
previously taxed earnings and profits were excluded under
section 959(a) by reason of a section 951A inclusion in a
U.S. shareholder’s tax year ending after June 28, 2025.
Line I. For any other reductions in taxes, enter the code
“OTH” and attach a statement with the amount and the
nature of such other reduction.

Schedule H
Computer-Generated Schedule H

A computer-generated Schedule H may be filed if it
conforms to the IRS version. In some cases, Schedule H
must be expanded to properly report apportioned
deductions. This applies in cases such as when the
corporation:
• Has more than two product lines (under the gross
receipts method of apportioning research and
experimental (R&E) deductions in Part I), or
• Has more than five categories of income (statutory
groupings within Part I, line 6; Part II, line 3; or Part III,
line 2) with respect to which expenses are required to be
apportioned.

25

Note: If there are more than five foreign source statutory
groupings within Part II, line 3, or Part III, line 2, add them
after the U.S. source residual grouping.

income pertaining to sales, licenses, leases, or services of
controlled parties (as defined in Regulations section
1.861-17(d)(4)).

Part I—Research and Experimental Deductions

Line 5c. For each product line, enter the aggregate
foreign source “gross intangible income” (as defined in
Regulations section 1.861-17(b)(2)) of the taxpayer that is
income pertaining to sales, licenses, leases, or services of
uncontrolled parties (as defined in Regulations section
1.861-17(d)(3)).

Note: These instructions refer to the regulations issued
on November 12, 2020. See Regulations section 1.861-17
(T.D. 9922, 85 FR 72042, as corrected by 86 FR 54367).
Use Part I to apportion R&E deductions. Use the gross
receipts method described in Regulations section
1.861-17 and report applicable amounts in column (a).

Column (a), Gross Receipts Method
Enter in the spaces provided the SIC codes (based upon
the Standard Industrial Classification System) of the
product lines to which the R&E deductions relate. See
Regulations section 1.861-17(b)(3) for details on choosing
SIC codes and changing a product category.
Note: If the corporation has more than two product lines,
see Computer-Generated Schedule H, earlier.

Columns (a)(i) and (a)(iv)
Line 1. For each product line, enter the taxpayer’s
worldwide “gross intangible income” (as defined in
Regulations section 1.861-17(b)(2)).
Line 4a. For each product line, enter the U.S. source
“gross intangible income” (as defined in Regulations
section 1.861-17(b)(2)) of the taxpayer that is neither
income pertaining to sales, licenses, leases, or services of
controlled parties (as defined in Regulations section
1.861-17(d)(4)) nor income pertaining to sales, licenses,
leases, or services of uncontrolled parties (as defined in
Regulations section 1.861-17(d)(3)).
Line 4b. For each product line, enter the U.S. source
“gross intangible income” (as defined in Regulations
section 1.861-17(b)(2)) of the taxpayer that is income
pertaining to sales, licenses, leases, or services of
controlled parties (as defined in Regulations section
1.861-17(d)(4)).
Line 4c. For each product line, enter the U.S. source
“gross intangible income” (as defined in Regulations
section 1.861-17(b)(2)) of the taxpayer that is income
pertaining to sales, licenses, leases, or services of
uncontrolled parties (as defined in Regulations section
1.861-17(d)(3)).
Line 4d. For each product line, add lines 4a through 4c
and enter the sum on line 4d.
Line 5a. For each product line, enter the aggregate
foreign source “gross intangible income” (as defined in
Regulations section 1.861-17(b)(2)) of the taxpayer that is
neither income pertaining to sales, licenses, leases, or
services of controlled parties (as defined in Regulations
section 1.861-17(d)(4)) nor income pertaining to sales,
licenses, leases, or services of uncontrolled parties (as
defined in Regulations section 1.861-17(d)(3)).
Line 5b. For each product line, enter the aggregate
foreign source “gross intangible income” (as defined in
Regulations section 1.861-17(b)(2)) of the taxpayer that is
26

Line 5d. For each product line, add lines 5a through 5c
and enter the sum on line 5d.
Lines 6a through 6e. For lines 6a through 6e, enter the
code for the applicable separate category of income
(foreign source statutory grouping). See Categories of
Income, earlier. If code “901j” or one of the “RBT” codes
applies, also enter the applicable country.
Note: If the corporation has more than five separate
categories of income, Schedule H, Part I, line 6 must be
expanded to properly report apportioned R&E deductions.
See Computer-Generated Schedule H, earlier.
Lines 6a(1), 6b(1), 6c(1), 6d(1), and 6e(1). For each
product line and for each separate category, enter the
foreign source “gross intangible income” (as defined in
Regulations section 1.861-17(b)(2)) of the taxpayer that is
neither income pertaining to sales, licenses, leases, or
services of controlled parties (as defined in Regulations
section 1.861-17(d)(4)) nor income pertaining to sales,
licenses, leases, or services of uncontrolled parties (as
defined in Regulations section 1.861-17(d)(3)).
Lines 6a(2), 6b(2), 6c(2), 6d(2), and 6e(2). For each
product line and for each separate category, enter the
foreign source “gross intangible income” (as defined in
Regulations section 1.861-17(b)(2)) of the taxpayer that is
income pertaining to sales, licenses, leases, or services of
controlled parties (as defined in Regulations section
1.861-17(d)(4)).
Lines 6a(3), 6b(3), 6c(3), 6d(3), and 6e(3). For each
product line and for each separate category, enter the
foreign source “gross intangible income” (as defined in
Regulations section 1.861-17(b)(2)) of the taxpayer that is
income pertaining to sales, licenses, leases, or services of
uncontrolled parties (as defined in Regulations section
1.861-17(d)(3)).
Lines 6a(4), 6b(4), 6c(4), 6d(4), and 6e(4). For each
product line and for each separate category, add lines (1),
(2), and (3) and enter the sum on line (4).

Columns (a)(ii) and (a)(v)
Line 1. For each product line, enter the taxpayer’s
worldwide gross receipts from sales and leases of
products or services.
Line 4a. For each product line, enter the taxpayer’s gross
receipts from sales and leases of products or services
related to U.S. source gross intangible income.
Line 4b. For each product line, enter the controlled
parties’ (as defined in Regulations section 1.861-17(d)(4))
gross receipts from sales, leases, licenses, or services
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

that are related to the taxpayer’s U.S. source gross
intangible income.
Line 4c. For each product line, enter the uncontrolled
parties’ (as defined in Regulations section 1.861-17(d)(3))
gross receipts from sales, leases, licenses, or services of
uncontrolled parties that are related to the taxpayer’s U.S.
source gross intangible income.
Line 4d. For each product line, add lines 4a through 4c
and enter the sum on line 4d.
Line 5a. For each product line, enter the taxpayer’s gross
receipts from sales and leases of products or services
related to foreign source gross intangible income.
Line 5b. For each product line, enter the controlled
parties’ (as defined in Regulations section 1.861-17(d)(4))
gross receipts from sales, leases, licenses, or services
that are related to the taxpayer’s foreign source gross
intangible income.
Line 5c. For each product line, enter the uncontrolled
parties’ (as defined in Regulations section 1.861-17(d)(3))
gross receipts from sales, licenses, leases, or services
that are related to the taxpayer’s foreign source gross
intangible income.
Line 5d. For each product line, add lines 4a through 4c
and enter the sum on line 4d.
Lines 6a(1), 6b(1), 6c(1), 6d(1), and 6e(1). For each
product line, enter the taxpayer’s gross receipts from sales
and leases of products or services that are related to
foreign source gross intangible income within the relevant
separate category.
Lines 6a(2), 6b(2), 6c(2), 6d(2), and 6e(2). For each
product line, enter the controlled parties’ (as defined in
Regulations section 1.861-17(d)(4)) gross receipts from
sales, licenses, leases, or services that are related to
foreign source gross intangible income within the relevant
statutory grouping.
Lines 6a(3), 6b(3), 6c(3), 6d(3), and 6e(3). For each
product line, enter the uncontrolled parties’ (as defined in
Regulations section 1.861-17(d)(3)) gross receipts from
sales, licenses, leases, or services that are related to
foreign source gross intangible income within the relevant
statutory grouping.
Lines 6a(4), 6b(4), 6c(4), 6d(4), and 6e(4). For each
product line and for each separate category, add lines (1),
(2), and (3) and enter the sum on line (4).

Columns (a)(iii) and (a)(vi)
Line 1. Enter the total R&E deductions connected with
the product lines.
Line 2a or 2b. Reduce the line 1 totals by a 50%
exclusive apportionment amount (Regulations section
1.861-17(c)).
Note: For tax years beginning on or after January 1,
2020, there is no longer a rule with respect to legally
mandated R&E. See Regulations section 1.861-17 (T.D.
9922) published in the Federal Register on November 12,
2020.
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

Under the exclusive apportionment rules, 50% of the
R&E deductions are apportioned exclusively to the
residual grouping of U.S. source gross income, if the R&E
that accounts for more than 50% of the amount of such
R&E deductions were performed in the United States. A
similar rule applies when a majority of R&E is performed
outside the United States.
Enter 50% of line 1 on either line 2a or line 2b (as
explained above).
Line 4d. According to Regulations section 1.861-17(d)
(1), to determine the line 3 amount of R&E expenditures to
be apportioned to the residual grouping of U.S. source
gross income, divide the gross receipts related to the
gross intangible income within the residual grouping by
the worldwide gross receipts for the product line. Multiply
the result by the line 3 R&E deductions to be apportioned.
Example 1. With respect to the first product line
reported on Schedule H, Part I, to determine the amount
to enter on line 4d, column (a)(iii), divide the amount on
line 4d, column (a)(ii) by the amount on line 1, column (a)
(ii). Multiply the result by the amount on line 3, column (a)
(iii).
Line 5d. According to Regulations section 1.861-17(d)
(1), to determine the line 3 amount of R&E expenditures to
be apportioned to the aggregate statutory grouping of
foreign source gross income, divide the gross receipts
related to the gross intangible income within the statutory
grouping(s) by the worldwide gross receipts for the
product line. Multiply the result by the line 3 R&E
deductions to be apportioned.
Example 2. With respect to the first product line
reported on Schedule H, Part I, to determine the amount
to enter on line 5d, column (a)(iii), divide the amount on
line 5d, column (a)(ii) by the amount on line 1, column (a)
(ii). Multiply the result by the amount on line 3, column (a)
(iii).
Lines 6a(5), 6b(5), 6c(5), 6d(5), and 6e(5). Enter the
amount of line 3 R&E deductions apportioned to each
separate category. According to Regulations section
1.861-17(d)(1), to determine the line 3 amount of R&E
expenditures to be apportioned among the statutory
groupings of foreign source gross income, divide the
gross receipts related to the gross intangible income
within the statutory grouping by the worldwide gross
receipts for the product line. Multiply the result by the
line 3 R&E deductions to be apportioned.
Example 3. With respect to the first product line
reported on Schedule H, Part I, there are two foreign tax
credit separate limitation categories with gross receipts
that are related to foreign source gross intangible income
within each of the two categories. With respect to the first
separate category, to determine the amount to enter on
line 6a(5), column (a)(iii), divide the amount on line 6a(4),
column (a)(ii) by the amount on line 1, column (a)(ii) and
multiply the result by the amount on line 3, column (a)(iii).
Similarly, with respect to the second separate category, to
determine the amount to enter on line 6b(5), column (a)
(iii), divide the amount on line 6b(4), column (a)(ii) by the
amount on line 1, column (a)(ii) and multiply the result by
the amount on line 3, column (a)(iii).
27

Lines 6a(6), 6b(6), 6c(6), 6d(6), and 6e(6). Enter the
amount of line 2b R&E deductions, if any, to be
apportioned to each separate category. As indicated in
Regulations section 1.861-17(c), if there are multiple
separate categories with foreign source gross intangible
income with respect to a given product line, the line 2b
amount is apportioned ratably based on the relative
amounts of gross receipts from gross intangible income in
each separate category, as determined under Regulations
section 1.861-17(d).

Column (b)
Line 1. Enter total R&E deductions for all product lines
(for example, from column (a)(iii) and, if applicable,
columns (a)(vi), (a)(ix), etc.).
Note: Line 1, column (b) is the total worldwide R&E
deductions for all product lines.
Lines 2a and 4d. Enter on line 2a the total amount
exclusively apportioned to U.S. source gross intangible
income for all product lines. Enter on line 4d the total
amount of line 3 R&E expenditures apportioned to the
residual grouping of U.S. source gross intangible income
for all product lines.
Note: Line 2a, column (b) plus line 4d, column (b) equals
the total amount of R&E deductions for all product lines
apportioned to U.S. source gross intangible income for all
product lines.
Lines 6a(7), 6b(7), 6c(7), 6d(7), and 6e(7). Enter on
each of these lines the total amount of line 3 R&E
expenditures apportioned to the statutory grouping of
foreign source gross income for all product lines.
Note: The sum of lines 6a(7), 6b(7), 6c(7), 6d(7), and
6e(7) in column (b) equals the total amount of R&E
deductions for all product lines apportioned to foreign
source gross intangible income for all product lines.
Note: Include the amount from column (b) of line 6a(7) in
column 14 of the Schedule A that corresponds with the
code entered on line 6a. If applicable, you should likewise
include the amount from column (b) of line 6b(7) in column
14 of the Schedule A that corresponds with the code
entered on line 6b. If applicable, on page 10 of Form 1118,
you should likewise include the amount(s) from column (b)
of lines 6c(7), 6d(7), and 6e(7) in column 14 of the
Schedule A that corresponds with the code entered on
lines 6c, 6d, and 6e, respectively.

Part II—Deductions Allocated and Apportioned
Based on Assets
Columns (a)(i) Through (b)(iv)
Use these columns to apportion interest deductions. See
final and temporary Regulations sections 1.861-8 through
1.861-14 for rules on the apportionment of interest
deductions based on the tax book value or adjusted tax
book value of assets.
A corporation may elect to use the alternative tax book
value method. See Regulations section 1.861-9(i).
28

Columns (a) and (b) are subdivided into “Nonfinancial
Corporations” and “Financial Corporations.” In allocating
interest deductions, members of an affiliated group that
are financial corporations must be treated as a separate
affiliated group. Complete columns (a)(ii) and (b)(iv) for
members of the corporation’s affiliated group that are
financial corporations and columns (a)(i) and (b)(iii) for
members that are nonfinancial corporations.
See Regulations section 1.861-11 for the definition of
an affiliated group.

Columns (a)(i) and (a)(ii)
Line 1a. Enter the average of the total assets of the
affiliated group. See Regulations section 1.861-9(g)(2) for
the definition of “average” for these purposes.
Line 1b. Enter the assets included on line 1a that are
characterized as excess related party indebtedness. See
Regulations section 1.861-10(e) for an exception to the
general rule of fungibility for excess related party
indebtedness.
Line 1c. Enter all other assets that attract specifically
allocable interest deductions. See Regulations section
1.861-10 for other exceptions to the general rule of
fungibility (such as qualified nonrecourse indebtedness
and integrated financial transactions).
Line 1d. Enter the total of the exempt assets and assets
without directly identifiable yield that are to be excluded
from the interest apportionment formula (Regulations
section 1.861-8(d)(2) and Temporary Regulations
sections 1.861-8T(d)(2) and 1.861-9T(g)(3)). This could
include an exempt portion of assets that produce
foreign-derived intangible income and/or an exempt
portion of CFC stock that gives rise to inclusions under
section 951A.
Lines 3a through 3f. For lines 3a through 3e, enter the
code for the applicable separate category of income
(statutory grouping). See Categories of Income, earlier. If
code “901j” or one of the “RBT” codes applies, also enter
the applicable country.
Note: If the corporation had more than five separate
categories of income, Schedule H, Part II, line 3 must be
expanded to properly report deductions apportioned
based on assets. See Computer-Generated Schedule H,
earlier.
The assets in each statutory grouping (lines 3a through
3e) and the residual grouping (line 3f) are divided between
those assets generating dividend income eligible to be
offset by the deduction under section 245A versus those
generating all other types of gross income. The foreign
branch income and section 951A income categories do
not include assets generating dividend income eligible to
be offset by the deduction under section 245A. The assets
on line 2 are characterized as assets in one of the
statutory groupings or as belonging to the residual
grouping.
Enter the value of the assets in each of the statutory
groupings on lines 3a through 3e, and enter the value of
the assets in the residual grouping on line 3f. See
Regulations sections 1.861-12 and 1.861-13 and
Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

Temporary Regulations sections 1.861-9T(g)(3),
1.861-12T(g)(2), and 1.861-12T for the rules for
characterizing the assets.

Columns (b)(iii) and (b)(iv)
Line 1a. Enter the total interest deductions for the
members of the corporation’s affiliated group. These
include any expense that is currently deductible under
section 163 (including original issue discount), and
interest equivalents. See Regulations section 1.861-9 and
Temporary Regulations section 1.861-9T for the definition
of interest equivalents and a list of the sections that
disallow or suspend interest deductions or require the
capitalization of interest deductions.
Line 1b. Enter the interest deductions associated with
the assets on line 1b of columns (a)(i) and (a)(ii),
respectively, that attract specifically allocable interest
deductions under Regulations section 1.861-10(e).
Note: These interest deductions will be divided among
the statutory groupings and the residual grouping. The
interest deductions allocated and apportioned to the
statutory groupings will appear as a definitely allocable
deduction in Schedule A, column 13(j).
Line 1c. Enter the interest deductions associated with
the assets on line 1c of columns (a)(i) and (a)(ii),
respectively, that attract specifically allocable interest
deductions.
Lines 3a through 3f. To figure the amount of interest
deductions to apportion to each separate category of
income (statutory grouping) and to the residual grouping,
divide the assets apportioned to the grouping by the total
assets apportioned and multiply the result by the interest
deductions to be apportioned.
Example 1. To determine the amount to enter on
line 3a(1), column (b)(iii), do the following.
1. Divide the amount entered on line 3a(1), column (a)
(i), by the amount on line 2, column (a)(i).
2. Multiply the result by the amount on line 2, column
(b)(iii).

Column (e)
Complete this column to apportion all other deductions
allocated and apportioned based on assets (other than
interest deductions, stewardship deductions, and certain
industrial/investor damages). See final and temporary
Regulations sections 1.861-8 and 1.861-14.

Line Instructions for Columns (c), (d), and (e)
Line 1a. For each column, enter the total expenses to be
allocated and apportioned. See final and temporary
Regulations sections 1.861-8 and 1.861-14. Also report
this amount on line 2.
Lines 3a through 3f. For lines 3a through 3e, enter the
code for the applicable separate category of income
(statutory grouping). See Categories of Income, earlier. If
code “901j” or one of the “RBT” codes applies, also enter
the applicable country.
Note: If the corporation had more than five separate
categories of income, Schedule H, Part II, line 3 must be
expanded to properly report stewardship deductions in
column (c), certain industrial/investor damages in column
(d), and “other deductions” in column (e). To clarify, in
column (e), report all other deductions allocated and
apportioned based on assets (other than those listed in
columns (b), (c), and (d)). See Computer-Generated
Schedule H, earlier.
Enter on lines 3a through 3e the amount of expenses
apportioned to each separate category of income as
further apportioned between dividend income eligible to
be offset by the deduction under section 245A and all
other gross income.
Enter on line 3f the amount of expenses apportioned to
income in the residual grouping (U.S. source income) as
further apportioned between dividend income eligible to
be offset by the deduction under section 245A and all
other gross income.
Attach a schedule that explains in detail how the above
apportionments were made.

Example 2. To determine the amount to enter on
line 3b(2), column (b)(iv), do the following.
1. Divide the amount on line 3b(2), column (a)(ii), by
the amount on line 2, column (a)(ii).
2. Multiply the result by the amount on line 2, column
(b)(iv).

Column (f)

Column (c)

Step 2: With respect to section 245A dividends, enter the
sum of any amounts entered in column (f) of lines 3a(1),
3b(1), 3c(1), 3d(1), 3e(1), and 3f(1) on line 4, column (f).
Include this line 4 result as a negative amount on
Schedule B, Part II, line 8b.

Complete this column to apportion stewardship
deductions. See Regulations section 1.861-8(e)(4)(ii).

Column (d)
Complete this column to apportion certain industrial/
investor damages. See Regulations section 1.861-8(e)(5)
(ii) and (iii).

Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

To determine the totals to enter in column (f), use the
following steps.
Step 1: For each applicable line beginning with line 3a(1),
enter the sum of the amounts in columns (b)(iii), (b)(iv),
(c), (d), and (e) in this column (f).

Note: This is the adjustment required by section 904(b)
(4) to worldwide taxable income to eliminate the expenses
properly allocated or apportioned to stock or dividend
income for which a dividends received deduction is
allowed under section 245A. As such, it includes both
foreign source amounts (that is, the amounts from the
applicable statutory groupings on lines 3a(1), 3b(1), 3c(1),
29

3d(1), and 3e(1)) and U.S. source amounts (that is, the
amount from the residual grouping on line 3f(1)).
Step 3: With respect to amounts other than section 245A
dividends, for each applicable statutory grouping, include
the amount in column (f) of line 3a(2), 3b(2), 3c(2), 3d(2),
or 3e(2) in column 14 of the corresponding Schedule A.
For example, if the taxpayer enters “PAS” on Schedule H,
Part II, line 3a, the taxpayer takes the total on line 3a(2),
column (f) and includes it in column 14 of the Schedule A
being completed for the Passive Category.
Note: Do not include the amount on line 3f(2), column (f)
in column 14 on any Schedule A. The amount on
line 3f(2), column (f) is a residual grouping amount and not
an applicable statutory grouping amount.
Note: Due to the reporting requirement described in step
3 above, you do not need to report a grand total for
amounts other than section 245A dividends (that is, the
amount reported on line 4).

Part III—Other Deductions

Report in Schedule H, Part III information pertaining to the
allocation and apportionment of deductions other than
research and experimental deductions (reported in
Schedule H, Part I) and other than deductions allocated
and apportioned based on assets (reported in
Schedule H, Part II).
Column (a). Complete this column to apportion officers’
compensation expense in accordance with the rules of
Regulations section 1.861-8(b)(3).
Columns (b) and (c). Complete these columns to
apportion amortization deductions and depletion
deductions, respectively, in accordance with the rules of
Regulations section 1.861-8(b)(2) and Temporary
Regulations section 1.861-8T(c)(1), for example.
Column (d). Complete this column to apportion product
liability damages in accordance with the rules of
Regulations section 1.861-8(e)(5)(ii).
Column (e). Complete this column to apportion
deductions other than those reported on Schedule H, Part
I; Schedule H, Part II; or Schedule H, Part III, columns (a)
through (d). See final and temporary Regulations sections
1.861-8 and 1.861-14.
Column (f). Column (f) is a totals column. It requests
total deductions allocated and apportioned to section
245A dividends. This is the sum of any amounts entered
in columns (a) through (e) on lines 2a(1), 2b(1), 2c(1),
2d(1), 2e(1), and 2f(1). The total is entered on line 3 and is
also included on Schedule B, Part II, line 8b as a negative
number.
Note: This is the adjustment required by section 904(b)
(4) to worldwide taxable income to eliminate the expenses
properly allocated or apportioned to stock or dividend
income for which a dividends received deduction is

30

allowed in section 245A. As such, it includes both foreign
source amounts (that is, the amounts from the applicable
statutory groupings on lines 3a(1), 3b(1), 3c(1), 3d(1), and
3e(1)) and U.S. source amounts (that is, the amount from
the residual grouping on line 3f(1)).
Column (g). With respect to each applicable statutory
grouping, column (g) requests the sum of any amounts
entered in columns (a) through (e) for lines 2a(2), 2b(2),
2c(2), 2d(2), and 2e(2). These are amounts other than
section 245A dividends.
Note: Unlike column (f), this column (g) does not request
a total. Instead, for each applicable statutory grouping, the
column (g) total for each applicable line is carried over to
column 14 of the corresponding Schedule A. For example,
if the taxpayer enters “PAS” on Schedule H, Part III,
line 2a, the taxpayer takes the total on line 2a(2), column
(g) and includes it in column 14 of the Schedule A being
completed for the Passive Category.

Line Instructions
Line 1. For each column, enter the total expenses to be
allocated and apportioned.
Lines 2a through 2f. For lines 2a through 2e, enter the
code for the applicable separate category of income
(statutory grouping). See Categories of Income, earlier. If
code “901j” or one of the “RBT” codes applies, also enter
the applicable country.
Note: If the corporation had more than five separate
categories of income, Schedule H, Part III, line 2 must be
expanded to properly report deductions other than
research and experimental deductions (reported in
Schedule H, Part I), and other than deductions allocated
and apportioned based on assets (reported in
Schedule H, Part II). See Computer-Generated
Schedule H, earlier.
Enter on lines 2a through 2e the amount of expenses
apportioned to each separate category of income as
further apportioned between dividend income eligible to
be offset by the deduction under section 245A and all
other gross income.
Enter on line 2f the amount of expenses apportioned to
income in the residual grouping (U.S. source income) as
further apportioned between dividend income eligible to
be offset by the deduction under section 245A and all
other gross income.
Attach a schedule that explains in detail how the above
apportionments were made.
Line 3. See the instructions for column (f) above.

Schedules I, J, K, and L

See the separate instructions for Schedule I, Schedule J,
Schedule K, and Schedule L to see if the corporation must
file these schedules.

Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

Paperwork Reduction Act Notice. We ask for the information on this form to carry out the Internal Revenue laws of the
United States. You are required to give us the information. We need it to ensure that you are complying with these laws
and to allow us to figure and collect the right amount of tax.
You are not required to provide the information requested on a form that is subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act
unless the form displays a valid OMB control number. Books or records relating to a form or its instructions must be
retained as long as their contents may become material in the administration of any Internal Revenue law. Generally, tax
returns and return information are confidential, as required by section 6103.
The time needed to complete and file this form will vary depending on individual circumstances. The estimated burden
for business taxpayers filing this form is approved under OMB control number 1545-0123 and is included in the estimates
shown in the instructions for their business income tax return.
If you have suggestions for making Form 1118 and related schedules simpler, we would be happy to hear from you.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/FormComments. Or you can send your comments to Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications Division, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224. Do not
send the tax form to this office. Instead, see Where To File in the instructions for the tax return with which this form is filed.

Instructions for Form 1118 (Rev. 12-2025)

31

