2025

Instructions for Form 8936
Clean Vehicle Credits (and Schedule A (Form 8936), Clean Vehicle Credit Amount)
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code
unless otherwise noted.

Future Developments

For the latest information about developments related to
Form 8936 and its instructions, such as legislation
enacted after they were published, go to IRS.gov/
Form8936.

What’s New
Clean vehicles acquired after September 30, 2025.
Taxpayers cannot claim clean vehicle credits for new,
previously owned, or commercial clean vehicles that they
acquired after September 30, 2025. See New Clean
Vehicle Credit, Previously Owned Clean Vehicle Credit,
and Qualified Commercial Clean Vehicle Credit, later.
For purposes of sections 25E, 30D, and 45W, a vehicle
is “acquired” as of the date a written binding contract is
entered into and a payment has been made. A payment
includes a nominal down payment or a vehicle trade-in.
For general information on modifications to sections
25E, 30D, and 45W under P.L. 119-21, see IRS.gov/
EnergyCreditFAQs.

Reminders
Vehicles placed in service beginning January 1,
2024. For vehicles placed in service after December 31,
2023, the seller must file the seller report through the IRS
Energy Credits Online (ECO) portal available at IRS.gov/
credits-deductions/energy-credits-online.
Transfer of new clean vehicle credit. For vehicles
placed in service after 2023, you may be able to transfer
the credit amount to the dealer at the time of sale and
receive an immediate financial benefit in place of a tax
credit claimed on your tax return. If you elect to transfer
the credit, you must file Form 8936 and Schedule A (Form
8936) with your return for the tax year in which the vehicle
was placed in service. For details, go to IRS.gov/
CleanVehicles.
Transfer of previously owned clean vehicle credit.
For vehicles placed in service after 2023, you may be able
to transfer the credit amount to the dealer at the time of
sale and receive an immediate financial benefit in place of
a tax credit claimed on your tax return. If you elect to
transfer the credit, you must file Form 8936 and
Schedule A (Form 8936) with your return for the tax year in
which the vehicle was placed in service. For details, go to
IRS.gov/CleanVehicles.

Oct 14, 2025

General Instructions
Purpose of Form

Use Form 8936 and Schedule A (Form 8936) to figure the
following credits for clean vehicles you placed in service
during your tax year.
• New clean vehicle credit.
• Previously owned clean vehicle credit.
• Qualified commercial clean vehicle credit.
Caution: You must file Form 8936 and Schedule A (Form
8936) if you purchased a new or used clean vehicle from a
registered dealer and reduced the amount you paid at the
time of sale by transferring the credit to the dealer.

New Clean Vehicle Credit

Use Parts I, II, and III of Form 8936 to claim the credit for
new clean vehicles. The credit is equal to the sum of the
credit amounts figured for each new clean vehicle you
placed in service during your tax year.

Use Parts I, II, and III of Schedule A (Form 8936) to
figure the clean vehicle credit amount for each new clean
vehicle you placed in service during your tax year.
The part of the credit attributable to business/
investment use of a new clean vehicle is treated as a
general business credit. Any part of the credit not
attributable to business/investment use is treated as a
personal credit.
Partnerships and S corporations must file this form to
claim the credit. All other taxpayers are not required to
complete or file this form if their only source for this credit
is a partnership or S corporation. Instead, they can report
this credit directly on line 1y in Part III of Form 3800,
General Business Credit.
Caution: You cannot claim the new clean vehicle credit
for any vehicle acquired after September 30, 2025.
New clean vehicle defined. This is a new vehicle with at
least four wheels placed in service after 2022 that:
• Is propelled to a significant extent by an electric motor
that draws electricity from a battery that has a capacity of
not less than 7 kilowatt hours and is capable of being
recharged from an external source of electricity;
• Is manufactured primarily for use on public streets,
roads, and highways;
• Has a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of less than
14,000 pounds;
• Had its final assembly within North America;
• Has a manufacturer’s suggested retail price of not more
than $55,000 ($80,000 for a van, sport utility vehicle
(SUV), or pickup truck); and

Instructions for Form 8936 (2025) Catalog Number 67912V
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

• Meets certain additional requirements discussed under
New Clean Vehicle Certification and Other Requirements,
later.

• Additional information is required if you transferred the
credit to the dealer. See Regulations section 1.30D-5 for
credit transfer rules.

Note: The battery that a new clean vehicle draws the
significant portion of its electricity from must meet the
critical mineral and battery component requirements in
section 30D(e) for the calendar year the vehicle is placed
in service, and it does not contain battery components
manufactured or assembled by a Foreign Entity of
Concern (FEOC).
Certain new qualified fuel cell motor vehicles
(discussed next) may also be treated as new clean
vehicles.

The following additional requirements must be met to
qualify you for the credit.
• You are the owner of the vehicle. If the vehicle is leased,
only the lessor and not the lessee is entitled to the credit.
• You placed the vehicle in service during the tax year.
• The original use of the vehicle began with you.
• You acquired the vehicle for use or to lease to others,
and not for resale.

New qualified fuel cell motor vehicle. This is a new
vehicle with at least four wheels placed in service after
2022 that:
• Is propelled by power derived from one or more cells
that convert chemical energy directly into electricity by
combining oxygen with hydrogen fuel, and satisfies the
requirements of section 30B(b)(3);
• Is manufactured primarily for use on public streets,
roads, and highways;
• Had its final assembly within North America;
• Has a manufacturer’s suggested retail price of not more
than $55,000 ($80,000 for a van, SUV, or pickup truck);
and
• Meets certain additional requirements discussed under
New Clean Vehicle Certification and Other Requirements,
later.

New Clean Vehicle Certification and
Other Requirements

Generally, for new clean vehicles (other than qualified fuel
cell motor vehicles), the vehicle must have been
manufactured by a qualified manufacturer. A qualified
manufacturer is a manufacturer who has entered into a
written agreement with the IRS under which the
manufacturer agrees to make periodic written reports to
the IRS providing vehicle identification numbers (VINs)
and other information about their new clean vehicles.
Information and certifications contained in these reports
will help identify which vehicles qualify you for the new
clean vehicle credit. Manufacturers of qualified fuel cell
vehicles are also encouraged to file these reports.

Tip: Information about new clean vehicles reported by
qualified manufacturers to the IRS is available at
Fueleconomy.gov/feg/tax2023.shtml
The dealer/seller of a new clean vehicle (including a
qualified fuel cell vehicle) must provide a report to you and
the IRS providing information required to claim the credit,
including the following.
• Your name and taxpayer identification number (TIN).
• The vehicle’s VIN.
• The battery capacity of the vehicle.
• Verification that the original use of the vehicle begins
with you.
• The maximum new clean vehicle credit allowable for the
vehicle.

2

Caution: You cannot claim the clean vehicle credit for any
vehicle acquired after September 30, 2025.
• You use the vehicle primarily in the United States. If you
use the vehicle primarily outside the United States, see
section 168(g)(4) for a list of exceptions that may apply.
• Your modified adjusted gross income (AGI) for 2024 or
2025 is not more than $150,000 ($300,000 if married filing
jointly or a qualifying surviving spouse; $225,000 if head
of household). Use Part I of Form 8936 to figure your
modified AGI. For additional information, see Part I under
Specific Instructions for Form 8936, later.
Credit transfer election. You elect to transfer the credit
of a new clean vehicle after December 31, 2024, to an
eligible entity (a registered dealer) in exchange for a
financial benefit (that is, reduced final cost) from the
eligible entity equal to the amount of the credit, whether in
cash, in the form of a partial payment, or as a down
payment for the purchase of such vehicle. The tax credit
can be applied at the point of sale to reduce the cost of
the purchase by the amount of the credit. You must report
the transfer on your tax return and attach a Form 8936 and
Schedule A (Form 8936) to reconcile the advance
payment of the credit and your eligibility for the credit.
Eligible taxpayers who purchase an eligible vehicle may
choose to wait and claim the tax credit on their return
instead of transferring a new clean vehicle tax credit.
Basis reduction. You must reduce the basis of each
vehicle by the amount entered on line 9 of Schedule A
(Form 8936) for that vehicle if:
1. You claim the credit for that vehicle, or
2. You transferred the credit to the dealer at the time of
sale for that vehicle.
Coordination with other credits. A vehicle that anyone
has claimed for the new clean vehicle credit in Part II of
Form 8936 cannot be used to claim the qualified
commercial clean vehicle credit in Part V of Form 8936. If
your vehicle qualifies for both credits, you may choose
which of those credits to claim.
Repayment of credit. If you purchased a new clean
vehicle from a registered dealer and reduced the amount
you paid at the time of sale by transferring the credit to the
dealer and you no longer qualify for the credit when you
file your tax return, you must repay the amount of the
credit that you transferred to the dealer.
Recapture of credit. If the vehicle no longer qualifies for
the credit, you may have to recapture part or all of the
credit. See Regulations section 1.30D-4.
Instructions for Form 8936 (2025)

More information. For details, see the following.
• Section 30D.
• IRS.gov/CleanVehicles.

• Meets certain additional requirements discussed under
Previously Owned Clean Vehicle Certification and Other
Requirements, later.

Use Parts I and IV of Form 8936 to claim the credit for
previously owned clean vehicles. The credit is equal to the
lesser of $4,000 or 30% of the sales price of a previously
owned clean vehicle you acquired and placed in service
during your tax year.

Generally, for previously owned clean vehicles (other than
qualified fuel cell motor vehicles), the vehicle must have
been manufactured by a qualified manufacturer. A
qualified manufacturer is a manufacturer who has entered
into a written agreement with the IRS under which the
manufacturer agrees to make periodic written reports to
the IRS providing vehicle identification numbers (VINs)
and other information about their previously owned clean
vehicles. Information and certifications contained in these
reports will help identify which vehicles qualify you for the
previously owned clean vehicle credit. Manufacturers of
qualified fuel cell vehicles are also encouraged to file
these reports.

Previously Owned Clean Vehicle
Credit

Use Parts I and IV of Schedule A (Form 8936) to figure
the previously owned clean vehicle credit amount.
Previously owned clean vehicle defined. This is a
previously owned vehicle with at least four wheels that you
acquired and placed in service after 2022 that:
• Has a model year that is at least 2 years earlier than the
calendar year in which you acquire the vehicle;
• Had its original use begin with a person other than you;
• Has a sales price that does not exceed $25,000;
• Was purchased from a dealer and was the first transfer
since August 16, 2022, to an individual eligible to claim
the credit;
• Is propelled to a significant extent by an electric motor
that draws electricity from a battery that has a capacity of
not less than 7 kilowatt hours and is capable of being
recharged from an external source of electricity;
• Is manufactured primarily for use on public streets,
roads, and highways;
• Has a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of less than
14,000 pounds; and
• Meets certain additional requirements discussed under
Previously Owned Clean Vehicle Certification and Other
Requirements, later.
Caution: You cannot claim the previously owned clean
vehicle credit for any vehicle acquired after September 30,
2025.
Certain previously owned qualified fuel cell motor
vehicles (discussed next) may also be treated as
previously owned clean vehicles.
Previously owned qualified fuel cell motor vehicle.
This is a previously owned vehicle with at least four
wheels that you acquired and placed in service after 2022
that:
• Has a model year that is at least 2 years earlier than the
calendar year in which you acquire the vehicle;
• Had its original use begin with a person other than you;
• Has a sales price that does not exceed $25,000;
• Was purchased from a dealer and was the first transfer
since August 16, 2022, to an individual eligible to claim
the credit;
• Is propelled by power derived from one or more cells
that convert chemical energy directly into electricity by
combining oxygen with hydrogen fuel;
• Is manufactured primarily for use on public streets,
roads, and highways;
• Has a GVWR of less than 14,000 pounds and satisfies
the requirements of section 30B(b)(3); and

Instructions for Form 8936 (2025)

Previously Owned Clean Vehicle
Certification and Other Requirements

Tip: Information about previously owned clean vehicles
reported by qualified manufacturers to the IRS is available
at Fueleconomy.gov/feg/taxused.shtml.
The dealer/seller of a previously owned clean vehicle
(including a qualified fuel cell vehicle) must provide a
report to you and the IRS providing information required to
claim the credit, including the following.
• Your name and taxpayer identification number (TIN).
• The vehicle’s VIN.
• The battery capacity of the vehicle.
• The sales price.
• The maximum previously owned clean vehicle credit
allowable for the vehicle.
• Additional information is required if you transferred the
credit to the dealer. See Regulation section 1.25E-3 for
credit transfer rules.
The following additional requirements must be met to
qualify you for the credit.
• You are an individual.
• You are the owner of the vehicle. If the vehicle is leased,
only the lessor and not the lessee is entitled to the credit.
• You placed the vehicle in service during the tax year.
• You acquired the vehicle for use, and not for resale.
Caution: You cannot claim the previously owned clean
vehicle credit for any vehicle acquired after September 30,
2025.
• You can’t be claimed as a dependent by another
taxpayer.
• You have not claimed another previously owned clean
vehicle credit in the 3 years before the purchase date.
• You use the vehicle primarily in the United States. If you
use the vehicle primarily outside the United States, see
section 168(g)(4) for a list of exceptions that may apply.
• Your modified adjusted gross income (AGI) for 2024 or
2025 is not more than $75,000 ($150,000 if married filing
jointly or a qualifying surviving spouse; $112,500 if head
of household). Use Part I of Form 8936 to figure your
modified AGI.
Credit transfer election. You elect to transfer the credit
for a previously owned clean vehicle after December 31,
2024, to an eligible entity (a registered dealer) in
3

exchange for a financial benefit (that is, reduced final cost)
from the eligible entity equal to the amount of the credit,
whether in cash, in the form of a partial payment, or as a
down payment for the purchase of such vehicle. The tax
credit can be applied at the point of sale to reduce the
cost of the purchase by the amount of the credit. You must
report the transfer on your tax return and attach a Form
8936 and Schedule A (Form 8936) to reconcile the
advance payment of the credit and your eligibility for the
credit.
Eligible taxpayers who purchase an eligible vehicle may
choose to wait and claim the tax credit on their return
instead of transferring a previously owned clean vehicle
tax credit.
Basis reduction. You must reduce the basis of each
vehicle by the amount entered on line 17 of Schedule A
(Form 8936) for that vehicle if:
1. You claim the credit for that vehicle, or
2. You transferred the credit to the dealer at the time of
sale for that vehicle.
Repayment of credit. If you purchased a previously
owned clean vehicle from a registered dealer and reduced
the amount you paid at the time of sale by transferring the
credit to the dealer and you no longer qualify for the credit
when you file your tax return, you must repay the amount
of the credit that you transferred to the dealer.
Recapture of credit. If the vehicle no longer qualifies for
the credit, you may have to recapture part or all of the
credit. See Regulations sections 1.25E-2 and 1.30D-4.
More information. For details, see the following.
• Section 25E.
• IRS.gov/CleanVehicles.

Qualified Commercial Clean Vehicle
Credit

Use Part V of Form 8936 to claim the credit for qualified
commercial clean vehicles. The credit is equal to the sum
of the credit amounts figured for each qualified
commercial clean vehicle you placed in service during
your tax year.

Use Parts I and V of Schedule A (Form 8936) to figure
the credit amount for each qualified commercial clean
vehicle you placed in service during your tax year.
Caution: You cannot claim the qualified commercial
clean vehicle credit for any vehicle acquired after
September 30, 2025.
Partnerships and S corporations must file this form to
claim the credit. All other taxpayers are not required to
complete or file this form if their only source for this credit
is a partnership or S corporation. Instead, they can report
this credit directly on line 1aa in Part III of Form 3800,
General Business Credit.
Credit amount. Generally, the credit amount for each
qualified commercial clean vehicle is equal to the lesser
of:
• 15% of the basis of the vehicle (30% for a vehicle not
powered by a gasoline or diesel internal combustion
engine), or
4

• The incremental cost of the vehicle.
Incremental cost. The incremental cost of any qualified
commercial clean vehicle is an amount equal to the
excess of the purchase price for the vehicle over the price
of a comparable vehicle. A comparable vehicle is a vehicle
powered solely by a gasoline or diesel internal combustion
engine and which is comparable in size and use to such
vehicle.
2025 safe harbor. Notice 2025-9 provides a safe
harbor regarding the incremental cost of certain qualified
commercial clean vehicles (including qualified fuel cell
motor vehicles) placed in service in calendar year 2025.
The IRS will accept the use of $7,500 as the incremental
cost for all street vehicles (other than compact car plug-in
hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs)) with a gross vehicle
weight rating (GVWR) of less than 14,000 pounds to figure
the credit amount for vehicles placed in service during
calendar year 2025. For compact car PHEVs and certain
vehicles with a GVWR of 14,000 pounds or more, the IRS
will accept the incremental cost for the appropriate vehicle
class determined by the Department of Energy (DOE)
2025 Incremental Purchase Cost Methodology and
Results for Clean Vehicles. For details, see Notice 2025-9,
available at IRS.gov/irb/2025-06_IRB#NOT-2025-9.
Maximum per vehicle credit amount. The credit
amount is limited to $7,500 ($40,000 for a vehicle with a
GVWR of 14,000 pounds or more).
Qualified commercial clean vehicle. This is a vehicle
acquired and placed in service after 2022 that:
• Is propelled to a significant extent by an electric motor
that draws electricity from a battery that has a capacity of
not less than 15 kilowatt hours (7 kilowatt hours for a
vehicle with a GVWR of less than 14,000 pounds) and is
capable of being recharged from an external source of
electricity;
• Is either manufactured primarily for use on public
streets, roads, and highways, or is mobile machinery, as
defined in section 4053(8) (including vehicles that are not
designed to perform a function of transporting a load over
public highways);
• Is of a character subject to the allowance for
depreciation (except for vehicles not subject to a lease
placed in service by certain tax-exempt and governmental
entities); and
• Meets certain additional requirements discussed under
Qualified Commercial Clean Vehicle Certification and
Other Requirements, later.
Certain qualified fuel cell motor vehicles (discussed
next) may also be treated as qualified commercial clean
vehicles.
Qualified fuel cell motor vehicle. This is a vehicle
acquired and placed in service after 2022 that:
• Is propelled by power derived from one or more cells
that convert chemical energy directly into electricity by
combining oxygen with hydrogen fuel;
• Is either manufactured primarily for use on public
streets, roads, and highways, or is mobile machinery, as
defined in section 4053(8) (including vehicles that are not
designed to perform a function of transporting a load over
public highways);

Instructions for Form 8936 (2025)

• Is of a character subject to the allowance for
depreciation (except for vehicles not subject to a lease
placed in service by certain tax-exempt and governmental
entities); and
• Meets certain additional requirements discussed under
Qualified Commercial Clean Vehicle Certification and
Other Requirements, later.

Tax-Exempt and Governmental
Entities

Certain tax-exempt and governmental entities that
generally don’t benefit from income tax credits can elect to
treat the qualified commercial clean vehicle credit as a
payment of income tax. Resulting overpayments may
result in refunds.
An applicable entity is defined as any of the following.

• An organization exempt from the tax imposed by

subtitle A by reason of subchapter F of chapter 1 of
subtitle A;
• The government of any U.S. territory or political
subdivision or instrumentality thereof;
• Any state, the District of Columbia, or a political
subdivision or instrumentality thereof;
• The Tennessee Valley Authority;
• An Indian tribal government or subdivision or
instrumentality thereof;
• Any Alaska Native Corporation (as defined in section 3
of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C.
1602(m))); and
• Any corporation operating on a cooperative basis that is
engaged in furnishing electric energy to persons in rural
areas.
For details, see section 6417 and the related
regulations.
Tax-exempt and governmental entities making the
elective payment election for the qualified commercial
clean vehicle credit must file the following.
• Schedule(s) A (Form 8936), Clean Vehicle Credit
Amount.
• Form 8936, Clean Vehicle Credits.
• Form 3800, General Business Credit.
• Form 990-T, Exempt Organization Business Income Tax
Return, or other applicable income tax return.
The IRS has established a pre-filing registration
process that must be completed prior to electing payment
of the qualified commercial clean vehicle credit. To
register, go to IRS.gov/Credits-Deductions/Register-forElective-Payment-or-Transfer-of-Credits. See Pub. 5884,
Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and CHIPS Act of 2022
(CHIPS) Pre-Filing Registration Tool, for more information.
Also see Registering for and Making Elective Payment
and Transfer Elections in the Instructions for Form 3800.

Qualified Commercial Clean Vehicle
Certification and Other Requirements

Generally, for qualified commercial clean vehicles, the
vehicle must have been manufactured by a qualified
manufacturer. A qualified manufacturer is a manufacturer
who has entered into a written agreement with the IRS
under which the manufacturer agrees to make periodic
written reports to the IRS providing vehicle identification
Instructions for Form 8936 (2025)

numbers (VINs) and other information about their qualified
commercial clean vehicles. Information and certifications
contained in these reports will help identify which vehicles
qualify you for the qualified commercial clean vehicle
credit.
The following additional requirements must be met to
qualify you for the credit.
• You are the owner of the vehicle. If the vehicle is leased,
only the lessor and not the lessee is entitled to the credit.
• You placed the vehicle in service during the tax year.
• You acquired the vehicle for use or to lease to others,
and not for resale.
Caution: You cannot claim the qualified commercial
clean vehicle credit for any vehicle acquired after
September 30, 2025.
• You use the vehicle primarily in the United States. If you
use the vehicle primarily outside the United States, see
section 168(g)(4) for a list of exceptions that may apply.
Basis reduction. You must reduce the basis of each
vehicle by the amount entered on line 26 of Schedule A
(Form 8936) for that vehicle if:
1. You claim the credit for that vehicle, or
2. You transferred the credit to the dealer at the time of
sale for that vehicle.
Coordination with other credits. A vehicle that anyone
has claimed for the new clean vehicle credit in Part II of
Form 8936 cannot be used to claim the qualified
commercial clean vehicle credit in Part V of Form 8936. If
your vehicle qualifies for both credits, you may choose
which of those credits to claim.
Recapture of credit. If the vehicle no longer qualifies for
the credit, you may have to recapture part or all of the
credit. For details, see Regulations sections 1.30D-4 and
section 45W(d)(1).
More information. For details, see the following.
• Section 45W.
• IRS.gov/CleanVehicles.

Specific Instructions for Form
8936
Part I—Modified Adjusted Gross
Income (MAGI) Amount
Lines 1a and 3a
Enter your modified AGI for the current and prior tax
year. For 2025, there is a limitation on the modified AGI. If
there was a change from your filing status on your 2024
tax return, see Special rule for change in filing status, later
in this section.
There are specific instructions for estates and trusts.
For additional information, see Estates and trusts, later in
this section.
Special rule for change in filing status. If your filing
status changes between the preceding year and the
current year, you may claim the new clean vehicle credit
and previously owned clean vehicle credit if your modified
AGI is less than or equal to the threshold applicable to
5

your filing status for the preceding year or current year.
Note that, except in the case of pass-through entities, the
credit may be claimed on only one tax return (including on
a joint return filed by two spouses), even if the vehicle is
placed in service by multiple taxpayers.
For example, a newly married couple jointly purchases
and places in service a new clean vehicle that qualifies for
the credit and puts both of their names on the title. The
couple files separate federal income tax returns by using
the married filing separately filing status for the year they
purchase the new clean vehicle. Because the spouses are
filing two returns and not one joint return, only one spouse
may claim the credit with respect to the new clean vehicle
on that spouse’s respective return, and the other spouse
may not claim any amount of the credit with respect to that
new clean vehicle. The spouse that claims the credit must
be the same spouse listed on the seller report. In the year
that the spouses purchase the vehicle, the spouse listed
on the seller report claims the credit with a modified AGI of
$200,000, which exceeds the threshold applicable to the
current year for married filing separately filing status
($150,000). But the spouse claiming the credit had a
modified AGI in the prior year of $140,000 and a filing
status of single ($150,000 threshold), so that spouse
meets the modified AGI requirement to claim the credit.
Estates and trusts. An estate or nongrantor trust is
treated as having modified adjusted gross income above
the threshold amount for any year in which the estate or
nongrantor trust is not in existence. Enter $150,001 for
any year the estate or nongrantor trust was not in
existence. Otherwise, enter the amount from line 17 of
Form 1041.
Grantor trusts. For a new clean vehicle placed in service
by a grantor trust, the modified adjusted gross income
limitation applies based on the modified adjusted gross
income of the grantor or other deemed owner of the trust,
and not the modified adjusted gross income of the trust or
any beneficiary of the trust other than the grantor or other
deemed owner.
Caution: The modified adjusted gross income limitation
does not apply in the case of a new clean vehicle placed
in service by a corporation or by a taxpayer that is not an
individual, estate, trust, or entity.
If a new clean vehicle is placed in service by a
partnership or an S corporation, and the new clean vehicle
credit is claimed by individuals who are direct or indirect
partners of that partnership or shareholders of that S
corporation, the modified AGI limitation applies to those
partners or shareholders.

Part II—Credit for Business/
Investment Use Part of New Clean
Vehicles
Line 7

Enter the total new clean vehicle credits from:
• Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), Partner’s Share of Income,
Deductions, Credits, etc., box 15 (code AY); and
• Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), Shareholder’s Share of
Income, Deductions, Credits, etc., box 13 (code AY).
6

Partnerships and S corporations report the above
credits on line 7. All other filers figuring a separate credit
on line 6 also report the above credits on line 7. All others
not using line 6 to figure a separate credit can report the
above credits directly on Form 3800, Part III, line 1y.

Part III—Credit for Personal Use Part
of New Clean Vehicles

Tip: A taxpayer claiming a credit amount for the personal
use part of a new clean vehicle must fill out Part II, even if
they are not claiming a credit amount for business/
investment use.

Line 11

Enter the total, if any, credits from Schedule 3 (Form
1040), lines 1 through 4, 5b, 6d, 6I, and 6m.

Line 13

If you cannot use part of the personal portion of the credit
because of the tax liability limit, the unused credit is lost.
The unused personal portion of the credit cannot be
carried back or forward to other tax years.

Part IV—Credit for Previously Owned
Clean Vehicles
Line 16

Enter the total, if any, credits from Schedule 3 (Form
1040), lines 1 through 4, 5b, 6d, and 6I.

Line 18

If you cannot use part of the credit because of the tax
liability limit, the unused credit is lost. The unused credit
cannot be carried back or forward to other tax years.

Part V—Credit for Qualified
Commercial Clean Vehicles
Line 20

Enter the total qualified commercial clean vehicle credits
from:
• Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), Partner’s Share of Income,
Deductions, Credits, etc., box 15 (code AZ); and
• Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), Shareholder’s Share of
Income, Deductions, Credits, etc., box 13 (code AZ).
Partnerships and S corporations report the above
credits on line 20. All other filers reporting a separate
credit on line 19 also report the above credits on line 20.
All others not using line 19 to report a separate credit can
report the above credits directly on Form 3800, Part III,
line 1aa.

Specific Instructions for Schedule A
(Form 8936)
Part I—Vehicle Details
Line 2

You must enter the vehicle’s VIN on line 2. The VIN of a
vehicle can be obtained from the registration, title, proof of
Instructions for Form 8936 (2025)

insurance, or actual vehicle. Generally, the VIN is 17
characters made up of numbers and letters.

Line 3

The date the vehicle was placed in service is the date the
taxpayer takes possession of the vehicle.

Line 4

Answer “Yes” if you made a credit transfer election and
enter the amount of the credit transferred to the dealer at
the time of sale. You can find this amount on the seller’s
report. If directed by line 8a, 8d, 13a, or 13c, you must
report this amount on Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 1b.

Line 5

See the definitions under New Clean Vehicle Credit,
earlier.
Tip: If your vehicle qualifies for this credit, as well as for
the qualified commercial clean vehicle credit, you can
choose which of those credits to claim.

Line 6

See the definitions under Previously Owned Clean Vehicle
Credit, earlier.

Line 7

See the definitions under Qualified Commercial Clean
Vehicle Credit, earlier.
Tip: If your vehicle qualifies for this credit as well as for
the new clean vehicle credit, you can choose which of
those credits to claim.

Part II—Credit Amount for Business/
Investment Use Part of New Clean
Vehicle
Lines 8c and 8d

For additional information, see Part I under Specific
Instructions for Form 8936, earlier.
For additional information, see Transfer of new clean
vehicle credit, earlier.

Line 9

Tentative credit amounts for new clean vehicles are
provided to the purchaser by the seller at the time the
vehicle is sold, and later forwarded to the IRS. Generally,
this amount will be the maximum credit amount listed in
the seller’s report for the vehicle. See New Clean Vehicle
Certification and Other Requirements, earlier.

Line 10

Enter the percentage of business/investment use.
Enter 100% if the vehicle is used solely for business
purposes.

Instructions for Form 8936 (2025)

If the vehicle is used for both business purposes and
personal purposes, determine the percentage of business
use by dividing the number of miles the vehicle was driven
during the year for business purposes or for the
production of income (not to include any commuting
mileage) by the total number of miles the vehicle was
driven for all purposes. Treat vehicles used by your
employees as being used 100% for business/investment
purposes if the value of personal use is included in the
employees’ gross income, or the employees reimburse
you for the personal use. If you report the amount of
personal use of the vehicle in your employee’s gross
income and withhold the appropriate taxes, enter “100%”
for the percentage of business/investment use.
If, during the tax year, you convert property used solely
for personal purposes to business/investment use (or vice
versa), figure the percentage of business/investment use
only for the number of months you use the property in your
business or for the production of income. Multiply that
percentage by the number of months you use the property
in your business or for the production of income and
divide the result by 12. For example, if you converted a
vehicle to 50% business use for the last 6 months of the
year, you would enter 25% on line 10 (50% multiplied by 6
divided by 12).
For more information, see Pub. 463, Travel, Gift, and
Car Expenses.

Part V—Credit Amount for Qualified
Commercial Clean Vehicle
Line 18b

See the exception discussed in the vehicle definitions
under Qualified Commercial Clean Vehicle Credit, earlier.

Line 18d

A qualified commercial clean vehicle (including a new
qualified fuel cell motor vehicle) is not required to be
powered in part solely by an electric motor to qualify for
the credit. The vehicle may also be powered in part by a
gasoline or diesel internal combustion engine. However, if
it is also powered by a gas or diesel engine, the credit rate
is reduced from 30% to 15%. For more information, see
the vehicle definitions earlier.

Line 19

For a discussion of cost or other basis, see Pub. 551,
Basis of Assets.

Line 20

Enter any section 179 expense deduction you claimed for
the vehicle from Part I of Form 4562, Depreciation and
Amortization.

Line 23

See Incremental cost, earlier.

7

Paperwork Reduction Act Notice. We ask for the information on this form and related schedule to carry out the
Internal Revenue laws of the United States. You are required to give us the information. We need it to ensure that you are
complying with these laws and to allow us to figure and collect the right amount of tax.
You are not required to provide the information requested on a form that is subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act
unless the form displays a valid OMB control number. Books or records relating to a form or its instructions must be
retained as long as their contents may become material in the administration of any Internal Revenue law. Generally, tax
returns and return information are confidential, as required by section 6103.
The time needed to complete and file this form and related schedule will vary depending on individual circumstances.
The estimated burden for individual and business taxpayers filing this form is approved under OMB control number
1545-0074 and 1545-0123 and is included in the estimates shown in the instructions for their individual and business
income tax return. The estimated burden for all other taxpayers who file this form is shown below.
Recordkeeping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Learning about the law or the form. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Preparing and sending the form to the IRS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4 hr., 15 min.
27 min.
1 hr., 25 min.

If you have comments concerning the accuracy of these time estimates or suggestions for making this form and
related schedule simpler, we would be happy to hear from you. See the instructions for the tax return with which this form
is filed.

8

Instructions for Form 8936 (2025)

