Identity Theft Information for Taxpayers
What is tax-related identity theft?

Identity theft
places a burden on
its victims
and presents
a challenge to
many businesses,
organizations and
governments,
including the IRS.
The IRS combats
this crime with an
aggressive strategy
of prevention,
detection and
victim assistance.

Tax-related identity theft occurs when someone
uses your stolen Social Security number (SSN) to
file a tax return claiming a fraudulent refund. If you
become a victim, we are committed to resolving
your case as quickly as possible.
You may be unaware that this has happened until
you e-file your return and discover that a return
already has been filed using your SSN. Or, the IRS
may send you a letter saying it has identified a
suspicious return using your SSN.

Know the warning signs
Be alert to possible tax-related identity theft if you
are contacted by the IRS about:
• More than one tax return was filed for you,
• You owe additional tax, have a refund offset or
have had collection actions taken against you for
a year you did not file a tax return, or
• IRS records indicate you received wages or
other income from an employer for whom you
did not work.

Steps for victims of identity theft
If you are a victim of identity theft, the Federal
Trade Commission recommends these steps:
• File a complaint with the FTC at identitytheft.gov.
• Contact one of the three major credit bureaus to
place a ‘fraud alert’ on your credit records:
• www.Equifax.com 1-800-525-6285
• www.Experian.com 1-888-397-3742
• www.TransUnion.com 1-800-680-7289
• Close any financial or credit accounts opened by
identity thieves
If your SSN is compromised and you know or
suspect you are a victim of tax-related identity
theft, the IRS recommends these additional steps:
• Respond immediately to any IRS notice; call
the number provided.
• Complete IRS Form 14039, Identity Theft
Affidavit, if your e-file return rejects because
of a duplicate filing under your SSN or you are
instructed to do so. Use a fillable form at
IRS.gov, print, then attach form to your paper
return and mail according to instructions.

• Continue to pay your taxes and file your tax return,
even if you must do so by paper.
• If you previously contacted the IRS and did not
have a resolution, contact us for specialized
assistance at 1-800-908-4490. We have teams
available to assist.
More information is available at: IRS.gov/identitytheft
or FTC’s identitytheft.gov.

About data breaches and your taxes
Not all data breaches or computer hacks result in
tax-related identity theft. It’s important to know what
type of personal information was stolen.
If you’ve been a victim of a data breach, keep in
touch with the company to learn what it is doing
to protect you and follow the “Steps for victims of
identity theft.” Data breach victims should submit
a Form 14039, Identity Theft Affidavit, only if your
Social Security number has been compromised and
IRS has informed you that you may be a victim of
tax-related identity theft or your e-file return was
rejected as a duplicate.

How you can reduce your risk
Join efforts by the IRS, states and tax industry to
protect your data. Taxes. Security. Together. We all
have a role to play. Here’s how you can help:
• Always use security software with firewall and
anti-virus protections. Use strong passwords.
• Learn to recognize and avoid phishing emails,
threatening calls and texts from thieves posing as
legitimate organizations such as your bank, credit
card companies and even the IRS.
• Do not click on links or download attachments from
unknown or suspicious emails.
• Protect your personal information and that of any
dependents. Don’t routinely carry Social Security
cards, and make sure your tax records are secure.
See Publication 4524, Security Awareness for
Taxpayers to learn more.
NOTE: The IRS does not initiate contact with
taxpayers by email to request personal or financial
information. This includes any type of electronic
communication, such as text messages and social
media channels.

Publication 5027 (Rev. 5-2018) Catalog Number 67495R Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

