Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

Publication 529

(Rev. December 2020)
Cat. No. 15056O

Miscellaneous
Deductions

Contents
Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Deductions for Unreimbursed Employee
Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Unreimbursed Employee Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Expenses You Can’t Deduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Miscellaneous Deductions Subject to the 2%
AGI Limit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Nondeductible Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Expenses You Can Deduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
How To Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Example . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

Reminders
Future developments. For the latest information about
developments related to Pub. 529, such as legislation
enacted after it was published, go to IRS.gov/Pub529.
Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children selected by the Center may appear in this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

Introduction
This publication explains that you can no longer claim any
miscellaneous itemized deductions, unless you fall into
one of the qualified categories of employment claiming a
deduction relating to unreimbursed employee expenses.
Miscellaneous itemized deductions are those deductions
that would have been subject to the 2%-of-adjusted-gross-income (AGI) limitation. You can still claim certain expenses as itemized deductions on Schedule A
(Form 1040), Schedule A (1040-NR), or as an adjustment
to income on Form 1040 or 1040-SR. This publication
covers the following topics.
Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (TiếngViệt)

• Deductions for Unreimbursed Employee Expenses.
• Expenses you can't deduct.
• Expenses you can deduct.
• How to report your deductions.
Note. Generally, nonresident aliens who fall into one of
the qualified categories of employment are allowed deductions to the extent they are directly related to income

Jan 04, 2021

which is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade
or business within the United States.
You must keep records to verify your deductions.
You should keep receipts, canceled checks, subRECORDS stitute checks, financial account statements, and
other documentary evidence.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Do not send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Visit IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Do not resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
463 Travel, Gift, and Car Expenses

Deductions for Unreimbursed
Employee Expenses
You can no longer claim any miscellaneous itemized deductions that are subject to the 2%-of-AGI limitation, including unreimbursed employee expenses. However, you
may be able to deduct certain unreimbursed employee
business expenses if you fall into one of the following categories of employment listed under Unreimbursed Employee Expenses next, or are an eligible educator as defined under Educator Expenses, later.

Unreimbursed Employee Expenses
You can no longer claim a deduction for unreimbursed
employee expenses unless you fall into one of the following categories of employment, or have certain qualified
educator expenses.

• Armed Forces reservists.
• Qualified performing artists.
• Fee-basis state or local government officials.
• Employees with impairment-related work expenses.
Unreimbursed employee expenses for individuals in
these categories of employment are deducted as adjustments to gross income. Qualified employees listed in one
of the categories above must complete Form 2106 to take
the deduction. Certain qualified educator expenses are
also deducted as an adjustment to gross income but you
are not required to complete Form 2106.
You can deduct only unreimbursed employee expenses that are paid or incurred during your tax year, for carrying on your trade or business of being an employee, and
ordinary and necessary.
An expense is ordinary if it is common and accepted in
your trade, business, or profession. An expense is necessary if it is appropriate and helpful to your business. An
expense doesn't have to be required to be considered
necessary.

463

525 Taxable and Nontaxable Income

Categories of Employment

535 Business Expenses

You can deduct unreimbursed employee expenses only if
you qualify as an Armed Forces reservist, a qualified performing artist, a fee-basis state or local government official, or an employee with impairment-related work expenses.

525

535

587 Business Use of Your Home (Including Use by
Daycare Providers)
587

946 How To Depreciate Property
946

Form (and Instructions)
Schedule A (Form 1040) Itemized Deductions
Schedule A (Form 1040)

Schedule A (Form 1040-NR) Itemized Deductions
Schedule A (Form 1040-NR)

2106 Employee Business Expenses
2106

See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication for
information about getting these publications and forms.
Page 2

Armed Forces reservist (member of a reserve component). You are a member of a reserve component of
the Armed Forces of the United States if you are in the
Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Coast Guard Reserve; the Army National Guard of the United States; or
the Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service.
Armed Forces reservists traveling more than 100
miles from home. If you are a member of a reserve
Publication 529 (December 2020)

component of the Armed Forces of the United States and
you travel more than 100 miles away from home in connection with your performance of services as a member of
the reserves, you can deduct some of your travel expenses as an adjustment to gross income. The amount of expenses you can deduct as an adjustment to gross income
is limited to the regular federal per diem rate (for lodging,
meals, and incidental expenses) and the standard mileage rate (for car expenses) plus any parking fees, ferry
fees, and tolls. The balance, if any, is reported on Schedule A.
For more information on travel expenses, see Pub.
463.
Qualified performing artist. You are a qualified performing artist if you:
1. Performed services in the performing arts as an employee for at least two employers during the tax year,
2. Received from at least two of the employers wages of
$200 or more per employer,
3. Had allowable business expenses attributable to the
performing arts of more than 10% of gross income
from the performing arts, and
4. Had adjusted gross income of $16,000 or less before
deducting expenses as a performing artist.
If you are a qualified performing artist, you can deduct
your employee business expenses as an adjustment to income rather than as a miscellaneous itemized deduction.
For example, musicians and entertainers can deduct the
cost of theatrical clothing and accessories that aren't suitable for everyday wear. If you are an employee, complete
Form 2106. See Pub. 463 for more information.
Fee-basis state or local government official. You are
a qualifying fee-basis official if you are employed by a
state or political subdivision of a state and are compensated, in whole or in part, on a fee basis.
If you are a fee-basis official, you can claim your expenses in performing services in that job as an adjustment to
income rather than as a miscellaneous itemized deduction. See Pub. 463 for more information.
Employee with impairment-related work expenses.
Impairment-related work expenses are the allowable expenses of an individual with physical or mental disabilities
for attendant care at his or her place of employment. They
also include other expenses in connection with the place
of employment that enable the employee to work. See
Pub. 463 for more details.
If you have a physical or mental disability that limits
your being employed, or substantially limits one or more of
your major life activities, such as performing manual
tasks, walking, speaking, breathing, learning, and working, you can deduct your impairment-related work expenses.
Impairment-related work expenses are ordinary and
necessary business expenses for attendant care services
at your place of work and other expenses in connection

Publication 529 (December 2020)

with your place of work that are necessary for you to be
able to work.

Educator Expenses
If you were an eligible educator for the tax year, you may
be able to deduct qualified expenses you paid as an adjustment to gross income on your Schedule 1 (Form
1040), rather than as a miscellaneous itemized deduction.
See the Instructions for Forms 1040 and 1040-SR for
more information.
Eligible educator. An eligible educator is a kindergarten
through grade 12 teacher, instructor, counselor, principal,
or aide in school for at least 900 hours during a school
year.
Qualified expenses. Qualified expenses include ordinary and necessary expenses paid in connection with
books, supplies, equipment (including computer equipment, software, and services), and other materials used in
the classroom. An ordinary expense is one that is common and accepted in your educational field. A necessary
expense is one that is helpful and appropriate for your
profession as an educator. An expense doesn’t have to be
required to be considered necessary.
Qualified expenses also include those expenses you
incur while participating in professional development courses related to the curriculum in which you provide instruction. It also includes those expenses related to those students for whom you provide that instruction.
Qualified expenses don’t include expenses for home
schooling or for nonathletic supplies for courses in health
or physical education. You must reduce your qualified expenses by the following amounts.

• Excludable U.S. series EE and I savings bond interest
from Form 8815.

• Nontaxable qualified state tuition program earnings.
• Nontaxable earnings from Coverdell education savings accounts.

• Any reimbursements you received for those expenses
that weren’t reported to you on your Form W-2, box 1.

Expenses You Can’t Deduct
In addition to the expenses that are no longer deductible
as a miscellaneous itemized deduction, there are expenses that are traditionally nondeductible under the Internal
Revenue Code. Both categories of deduction are discussed next.

Page 3

Miscellaneous Deductions Subject to
the 2% AGI Limit
Unless you qualify for an exception, you generally can't
deduct the following expenses, even if you fall into one of
the qualified categories of employment listed earlier.

• Appraisal fees for a casualty loss or charitable contribution.

• Casualty and theft losses from property used in performing services as an employee.

• Clerical help and office rent in caring for investments.
• Credit or debit card convenience fees.
• Depreciation on home computers used for investments.

• Fees to collect interest and dividends.
• Hobby expenses, but generally not more than hobby
income.

• Indirect miscellaneous deductions from pass-through
entities.

• Investment fees and expenses.
• Legal fees related to producing or collecting taxable
income or getting tax advice.

• Loss on deposits in an insolvent or bankrupt financial
institution.

• Loss on traditional IRAs or Roth IRAs, when all
amounts have been distributed to you.

• Repayments of income.
• Repayments of social security benefits.
• Safe deposit box rental, except for storing jewelry and
other personal effects.

• Service charges on dividend reinvestment plans.
• Tax advice fees.
• Trustee's fees for your IRA, if separately billed and
paid.

Appraisal Fees
Appraisal fees you pay to figure a casualty loss or the fair
market value of donated property are miscellaneous itemized deductions and can no longer be deducted.

Casualty and Theft Losses
Damaged or stolen property used in performing services
as an employee is a miscellaneous deduction and can no
longer be deducted. For more information on casualty and
theft losses, see Pub. 547, Casualties, Disasters, and
Thefts.

Clerical Help and Office Rent
Office expenses, such as rent and clerical help, you pay in
connection with your investments and collecting taxable
Page 4

income on those investments are miscellaneous itemized
deductions and are no longer deductible.

Credit or Debit Card Convenience Fees
The convenience fee charged by the card processor for
paying your income tax (including estimated tax payments) by credit or debit card is a miscellaneous itemized
deduction and is no longer deductible.

Depreciation on Home Computer
If you use your home computer to produce income (for example, to manage your investments that produce taxable
income), the depreciation of the computer for that part of
the usage of the computer is a miscellaneous itemized deduction and is no longer deductible.

Fees To Collect Interest and Dividends
Fees you pay to a broker, bank, trustee, or similar agent to
collect your taxable bond interest or dividends on shares
of stock are miscellaneous itemized deductions and can
no longer be deducted.

Fines or Penalties
No deduction is allowed for fines and penalties paid to a
government or specified nongovernmental entity for the violation of any law except in the following situations.

• Certain amounts that constitute restitution.
• Certain amounts paid to come into compliance with
the law.

• Amounts paid or incurred as the result of certain court
orders in which no government or specified nongovernmental agency is a party.

• Amounts paid or incurred for taxes due.
Nondeductible amounts include an amount paid in settlement of your actual or potential liability for a fine or penalty (civil or criminal). Fines or penalties include amounts
paid such as parking tickets, tax penalties, and penalties
deducted from teachers' paychecks after an illegal strike.
No deduction is allowed for the restitution amount or
amount paid to come into compliance with the law unless
the amounts are specifically identified in the settlement
agreement or court order. Also, any amount paid or incurred as reimbursement to the government for the costs of
any investigation or litigation are nondeductible.

Hobby Expenses
A hobby isn’t a business because it isn’t carried on to
make a profit. If you receive income for an activity that you
don’t carry out to make a profit, the expenses you pay for
the activity are miscellaneous itemized deductions and
can no longer be deducted. See Not-for-Profit Activities in
chapter 1 of Pub. 535. You must still report the income
you receive on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040).
Publication 529 (December 2020)

Indirect Deductions of Pass-Through
Entities

loss as an ordinary loss or as a casualty loss on your
Schedule A (Form 1040).

Pass-through entities include partnerships, S corporations, and mutual funds that aren't publicly offered. Deductions of pass-through entities are passed through to
the partners or shareholders. The partner’s or shareholder’s share of passed-through deductions for investment
expenses are miscellaneous itemized deductions and can
no longer be deducted.

Loss on IRA
A loss on your traditional IRA (or Roth IRA) investment is
a miscellaneous itemized deduction and can no longer be
deducted.

Nonpublicly offered mutual funds. These funds will
send you a Form 1099-DIV, or a substitute form, showing
your share of gross income and investment expenses.
The investment expenses reported on Form 1099-DIV are
a miscellaneous itemized deduction and are no longer deductible.

Generally, repayments of amounts that you included in income in an earlier year is a miscellaneous itemized deduction and can no longer be deducted. If you had to repay more than $3,000 that you included in your income in
an earlier year, you may be able to deduct the amount.
See Repayments Under Claim of Right, later.

Investment Fees and Expenses

Repayments of Social Security Benefits

Investment fees, custodial fees, trust administration fees,
and other expenses you paid for managing your investments that produce taxable income are miscellaneous
itemized deductions and are no longer deductible.

If the total amount shown in box 5 of all of your Forms
SSA-1099 and RRB-1099 is a negative figure, you may be
able to deduct part of this negative figure if the figure is
more than $3,000. If the figure is less than $3,000, it is a
miscellaneous itemized deduction and can no longer be
deducted. See Pub. 915, Social Security and Equivalent
Railroad Retirement Benefits, for additional information.

Legal Expenses
Legal expenses that you incur in attempting to produce or
collect taxable income or that you pay in connection with
the determination, collection, or refund of any tax are miscellaneous itemized deductions and are no longer deductible.
You can deduct legal expenses that are related to

TIP doing or keeping your job, such as those you paid

to defend yourself against criminal charges arising out of your trade or business.
You can deduct expenses of resolving tax issues relating to profit or loss from business reported on Schedule C
(Form 1040), Profit or Loss From Business (Sole Proprietorship), from rentals or royalties reported on Schedule E
(Form 1040), Supplemental Income and Loss, or from
farm income and expenses reported on Schedule F (Form
1040), Profit or Loss From Farming, on that schedule. Expenses for resolving nonbusiness tax issues are miscellaneous itemized deductions and are no longer deductible.

Loss on Deposits
A loss on deposits can occur when a bank, credit union, or
other financial institution becomes insolvent or bankrupt. If
you can reasonably estimate the amount of your loss on
money you have on deposit in a financial institution that
becomes insolvent or bankrupt, you can generally choose
to deduct it in the current year even though its exact
amount hasn't been finally determined.
If none of the deposit is federally insured, you could deduct the loss as a nonbusiness bad debt. Report it on your
Schedule D (Form 1040). You can no longer deduct the

Publication 529 (December 2020)

Repayments of Income

Safe Deposit Box Rent
Rent you pay for a safe deposit box you use to store taxable income-producing stocks, bonds, or investment related papers is a miscellaneous itemized deduction and can
no longer be deducted. You also can't deduct the rent if
you use the box for jewelry, other personal items, or
tax-exempt securities.

Service Charges on Dividend
Reinvestment Plans
Service charges you pay as a subscriber in a dividend reinvestment plan are a miscellaneous itemized deduction
and can no longer be deducted. These service charges
include payments for:

• Holding shares acquired through a plan,
• Collecting and reinvesting cash dividends, and
• Keeping individual records and providing detailed
statements of accounts.

Tax Preparation Fees
Tax preparation fees on the return for the year in which
you pay them are a miscellaneous itemized deduction and
can no longer be deducted. These fees include the cost of
tax preparation software programs and tax publications.
They also include any fee you paid for electronic filing of
your return.

Page 5

Trustee's Administrative Fees for IRA
Trustee's administrative fees that are billed separately and
paid by you in connection with your IRA are a miscellaneous itemized deduction and can no longer be deducted.

Nondeductible Expenses
In addition to the miscellaneous itemized deductions discussed earlier, you can't deduct the following expenses.

List of Nondeductible Expenses
• Adoption expenses.
• Broker's commissions.
• Burial or funeral expenses, including the cost of a
cemetery lot.

• Campaign expenses.
• Capital expenses.
• Check-writing fees.
• Club dues.
• Commuting expenses.
• Fees and licenses, such as car licenses, marriage licenses, and dog tags.

• Fines or penalties.
• Health spa expenses.
• Hobby losses—but see Hobby Expenses, earlier.
• Home repairs, insurance, and rent.
• Home security system.
• Illegal bribes and kickbacks—see Bribes and kickbacks in chapter 11 of Pub. 535.

• Stockholders’ meeting attendance expenses.
• Tax-exempt income earning/collecting expenses.
• The value of wages never received or lost vacation
time.

• Travel expenses for another individual.
• Voluntary unemployment benefit fund contributions.
• Wristwatches.
Adoption Expenses
You can't deduct the expenses of adopting a child but you
may be able to take a credit for those expenses. For details, see Form 8839, Qualified Adoption Expenses.

Commissions
Commissions paid on the purchase of securities aren't deductible, either as business or nonbusiness expenses. Instead, these fees must be added to the taxpayer's cost of
the securities. Commissions paid on the sale are deductible as business expenses only by dealers.

Campaign Expenses
You can't deduct campaign expenses of a candidate for
any office, even if the candidate is running for reelection to
the office. These include qualification and registration fees
for primary elections.
Legal fees. You can't deduct legal fees paid to defend
charges that arise from participation in a political campaign.

Capital Expenses

• Investment-related seminars.
• Life insurance premiums paid by the insured.
• Lobbying expenses.
• Losses from the sale of your home, furniture, personal

You can't currently deduct amounts paid to buy property
that has a useful life substantially beyond the tax year or
amounts paid to increase the value or prolong the life of
property. If you use such property in your work, you may
be able to take a depreciation deduction. See Pub. 946. If
the property is a car used in your work, also see Pub. 463.

• Lost or misplaced cash or property.
• Lunches with co-workers.
• Meals while working late.
• Medical expenses as business expenses other than

Check-Writing Fees on Personal Account

car, etc.

medical examinations required by your employer.

• Personal disability insurance premiums.
• Personal legal expenses.
• Personal, living, or family expenses.
• Political contributions.
• Professional accreditation fees.
• Professional reputation improvement expenses.
• Relief fund contributions.
• Residential telephone line.
Page 6

If you have a personal checking account, you can't deduct
fees charged by the bank for the privilege of writing
checks, even if the account pays interest.

Club Dues
Generally, you can't deduct the cost of membership in any
club organized for business, pleasure, recreation, or other
social purpose. This includes business, social, athletic,
luncheon, sporting, airline, hotel, golf, and country clubs.
You can't deduct dues paid to an organization if one of
its main purposes is to:

• Conduct entertainment activities for members or their
guests, or

Publication 529 (December 2020)

• Provide members or their guests with access to entertainment facilities.

Dues paid to airline, hotel, and luncheon clubs aren't
deductible.

Commuting Expenses
You can't deduct commuting expenses (the cost of transportation between your home and your main or regular
place of work). If you fall into one of the qualified categories of employment discussed under Unreimbursed Employee Expenses, earlier, and you haul tools, instruments,
or other items in your car to and from work, you can deduct only the additional cost of hauling the items, such as
the rent on a trailer to carry the items.

Fines or Penalties
No deduction is allowed for fines and penalties paid to a
government or specified nongovernmental entity for the violation of any law except in the following situations.

• Certain amounts that constitute restitution.
• Certain amounts paid to come into compliance with

Investment-Related Seminars
You can't deduct any expenses for attending a convention, seminar, or similar meeting for investment purposes.

Life Insurance Premiums
You can't deduct premiums you pay on your life insurance. You may be able to deduct, as alimony, premiums
you pay on life insurance policies assigned to your former
spouse. See Pub. 504, Divorced or Separated Individuals,
for information on alimony.

Lobbying Expenses
You generally can't deduct amounts paid or incurred for
lobbying expenses. These include expenses to:
1. Influence legislation;
2. Participate, or intervene, in any political campaign for,
or against, any candidate for public office;
3. Attempt to influence the general public, or segments
of the public, about elections, legislative matters, or
referendums; or

• Amounts paid or incurred as the result of certain court

4. Communicate directly with covered executive branch
officials in any attempt to influence the official actions
or positions of those officials.

• Amounts paid or incurred for taxes due.

Lobbying expenses also include any amounts paid or
incurred for research, preparation, planning, or coordination of any of these activities.

the law.

orders in which no government or specified nongovernmental agency is a party.

Nondeductible amounts include an amount paid in settlement of your actual or potential liability for a fine or penalty (civil or criminal). Fines or penalties include amounts
paid such as parking tickets, tax penalties, and penalties
deducted from teachers' paychecks after an illegal strike.
No deduction is allowed for the restitution amount or
amount paid to come into compliance with the law unless
the amounts are specifically identified in the settlement
agreement or court order. Also, any amount paid or incurred as reimbursement to the government for the costs of
any investigation or litigation are nondeductible.

Health Spa Expenses
You can't deduct health spa expenses, even if there is a
job requirement to stay in excellent physical condition,
such as might be required of a law enforcement officer.

Home Security System
You can't deduct the cost of a home security system as a
miscellaneous deduction. However, you may be able to
claim a deduction for a home security system as a business expense if you have a home office. See Home Office
under Expenses You Can Deduct, later, and Pub. 587.

Covered executive branch official. A covered executive branch official, for the purpose of (4) above, is any of
the following officials.

• The President.
• The Vice President.
• Any officer or employee of the White House Office of
the Executive Office of the President, and the two
most senior level officers of each of the other agencies in the Executive Office.

• Any individual serving in a position in Level I of the Executive Schedule under section 5312 of title 5, United
States Code, any other individual designated by the
President as having Cabinet-level status, and any immediate deputy of one of these individuals.

Dues used for lobbying. If a tax-exempt organization
notifies you that part of the dues or other amounts you pay
to the organization are used to pay nondeductible lobbying expenses, you can't deduct that part.
Exceptions. You can deduct certain lobbying expenses
if they are ordinary and necessary expenses of carrying
on your trade or business.

• You can deduct in-house expenses for influencing

legislation or communicating directly with a covered
executive branch official if the expenses for the tax

Publication 529 (December 2020)

Page 7

year aren't more than $2,000 (not counting overhead
expenses).

• If you are a professional lobbyist, you can deduct the

expenses you incur in the trade or business of lobbying on behalf of another person. Payments by the
other person to you for lobbying activities can't be deducted.

Lost or Mislaid Cash or Property
You can't deduct a loss based on the mere disappearance
of money or property. However, an accidental loss or disappearance of property can qualify as a casualty if it results from an identifiable event that is sudden, unexpected, or unusual. See Pub. 547.

Lunches With Co-Workers
You can't deduct the expenses of lunches with co-workers, except while traveling away from home on business.
See Pub. 463 for information on deductible expenses
while traveling away from home.

Meals While Working Late
You can't deduct the cost of meals while working late.
However, you may be able to claim a deduction for 50% of
the cost of the meals if you are traveling away from home.
See Pub. 463 for information on deductible expenses
while traveling away from home.

Personal Legal Expenses
You can't deduct personal legal expenses such as those
for the following.

• Custody of children.
• Breach of promise to marry suit.
• Civil or criminal charges resulting from a personal relationship.

• Damages for personal injury (except certain whistle-

blower claims and unlawful discrimination claims). For
more information about unlawful discrimination claims,
see Expenses You Can’t Deduct, earlier.

• Preparation of a title (or defense or perfection of a title).

• Preparation of a will.
• Property claims or property settlement in a divorce.
You can't deduct these expenses even if a result of the
legal proceeding is the loss of income-producing property.

Political Contributions
You can't deduct contributions made to a political candidate, a campaign committee, or a newsletter fund. Advertisements in convention bulletins and admissions to dinners or programs that benefit a political party or political
candidate aren't deductible.
Page 8

Professional Accreditation Fees
You can't deduct professional accreditation fees such as
the following.

• Accounting certificate fees paid for the initial right to
practice accounting.

• Bar exam fees and incidental expenses in securing initial admission to the bar.

• Medical and dental license fees paid to get initial licensing.

Professional Reputation
You can't deduct expenses of radio and TV appearances
to increase your personal prestige or establish your professional reputation.

Relief Fund Contributions
You can't deduct contributions paid to a private plan that
pays benefits to any covered employee who can't work
because of any injury or illness not related to the job.

Residential Telephone Service
You can't deduct any charge (including taxes) for basic local telephone service for the first telephone line to your
residence, even if it is used in a trade or business.

Stockholders' Meetings
You can't deduct transportation and other expenses you
pay to attend stockholders' meetings of companies in
which you own stock but have no other interest. You can't
deduct these expenses even if you are attending the
meeting to get information that would be useful in making
further investments.

Tax-Exempt Income Expenses
You can't deduct expenses to produce tax-exempt income. You can't deduct interest on a debt incurred or continued to buy or carry tax-exempt securities.
If you have expenses to produce both taxable and
tax-exempt income, but you can't identify the expenses
that produce each type of income, you must divide the expenses based on the amount of each type of income to
determine the amount that you can deduct.

Travel Expenses for Another Individual
You generally can't deduct travel expenses you pay or incur for a spouse, dependent, or other individual who accompanies you (or your employee) on personal or business travel unless the spouse, dependent, or other
individual is an employee of the taxpayer, the travel is for
a bona fide business purpose, and such expenses would
otherwise be deductible by the spouse, dependent, or

Publication 529 (December 2020)

other individual. See Pub. 463 for more information on deductible travel expenses.

Voluntary Unemployment Benefit Fund
Contributions
You can't deduct voluntary unemployment benefit fund
contributions you make to a union fund or a private fund.
However, you can deduct contributions as taxes if state
law requires you to make them to a state unemployment
fund that covers you for the loss of wages from unemployment caused by business conditions.

Wristwatches
You can't deduct the cost of a wristwatch, even if there is
a job requirement that you know the correct time to properly perform your duties.

Expenses You Can Deduct
You can deduct the items listed below as itemized deductions. Report these items on your Schedule A (Form
1040), or your Schedule A (Form 1040-NR).

List of Deductions
• Amortizable premium on taxable bonds.
• Casualty and theft losses from income-producing
property.

• Excess deductions (including administrative expen-

ses) allowed a beneficiary on termination of an estate
or trust.

• Federal estate tax on income in respect of a decedent.

• Fines or penalties.
• Gambling losses up to the amount of gambling winnings.

• Impairment-related work expenses of persons with
disabilities.

• Losses from Ponzi-type investment schemes.
• Repayments of more than $3,000 under a claim of
right.

• Unlawful discrimination claims.
• Unrecovered investment in an annuity.
• An ordinary loss attributable to a contingent payment

debt instrument or an inflation-indexed debt instrument (for example, a Treasury Inflation-Protected Security).

Amortizable Premium on Taxable Bonds
In general, if the amount you pay for a bond is greater than
its stated principal amount, the excess is bond premium.
You can elect to amortize the premium on taxable bonds.
Publication 529 (December 2020)

The amortization of the premium is generally an offset to
interest income on the bond rather than a separate deduction item.
Pre-1998 election to amortize bond premium. Generally, if you first elected to amortize bond premium before
1998, the above treatment of the premium doesn't apply
to bonds you acquired before 1988.
Bonds acquired after October 22, 1986, and before
1988. The amortization of the premium on these bonds is
investment interest expense subject to the investment interest limit, unless you chose to treat it as an offset to interest income on the bond.
Bonds acquired before October 23, 1986. The amortization of the premium on these bonds is deducted as
an itemized deduction on your Schedule A (Form 1040).
Deduction for excess premium. On certain bonds
(such as bonds that pay a variable rate of interest or that
provide for an interest-free period), the amount of bond
premium allocable to a period may exceed the amount of
stated interest allocable to the period. If this occurs, treat
the excess as an itemized deduction on your Schedule A
(Form 1040). However, the amount deductible is limited to
the amount by which your total interest inclusions on the
bond in prior periods exceed the total amount you treated
as a bond premium deduction on the bond in prior periods.
If any of the excess bond premium can't be deducted
because of the limit, this amount is carried forward to the
next period and is treated as bond premium allocable to
that period. If there is a bond premium carryforward as of
the end of the accrual period in which the bond is sold, retired, or otherwise disposed of, treat the carryforward as
an itemized deduction on your Schedule A (Form 1040).
Pre-1998 choice to amortize bond premium. If
you made the choice to amortize the premium on
CAUTION taxable bonds before 1998, you can deduct the
bond premium amortization that is more than your interest
income only for bonds acquired during 1998 and later
years.

!

More information. For more information on bond premium, see Bond Premium Amortization in chapter 3 of
Pub. 550.

Casualty and Theft Losses of
Income-Producing Property
You can deduct a casualty or theft loss as an itemized deduction on your Schedule A (Form 1040), if the damaged
or stolen property was income-producing property (property held for investment, such as stocks, notes, bonds,
gold, silver, vacant lots, and works of art). First report the
loss on Form 4684. You may also have to include the loss
on Form 4797, Sales of Business Property, if you are otherwise required to file that form. To figure your deduction,
add all casualty or theft losses from this type of property
included on Form 4684, or Form 4797. For more information on casualty and theft losses, see Pub. 547.
Page 9

Excess Deductions of an Estate or Trust
Generally, if an estate or trust has an excess deduction resulting from total deductions being greater than its gross
income, in the estate’s or trust's last tax year, a beneficiary
can deduct the excess deductions, depending on its character. The excess deductions retain their character as an
adjustment to arrive at adjusted gross income on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), as a non-miscellaneous itemized deduction reported on Schedule A (Form 1040), or as a miscellaneous itemized deduction. For more information on
excess deductions of an estate or trust, see the Instructions for Schedule K-1 (Form 1041) for a Beneficiary Filing
Form 1040 or 1040-SR.

Federal Estate Tax on Income in Respect of
a Decedent
You can deduct the federal estate tax attributable to income in respect of a decedent that you as a beneficiary
include in your gross income. Income in respect of the decedent is gross income that the decedent would have received had death not occurred and that wasn't properly includible in the decedent's final income tax return. See
Pub. 559 for information about figuring the amount of this
deduction.

wagers plus expenses incurred in connection with the
conduct of the gambling activity, such as travel to and
from a casino. You can't deduct gambling losses that are
more than your winnings. Generally, nonresident aliens
can't deduct gambling losses on your Schedule A (Form
1040-NR).
You can't reduce your gambling winnings by your
gambling losses and report the difference. You
CAUTION must report the full amount of your winnings as income and claim your losses (up to the amount of winnings) as an itemized deduction. Therefore, your records
should show your winnings separately from your losses.

!

Diary of winnings and losses. You must keep
an accurate diary or similar record of your losses
RECORDS and winnings.
Your diary should contain at least the following information.

• The date and type of your specific wager or wagering
activity.

• The name and address or location of the gambling establishment.

• The names of other persons present with you at the
gambling establishment.

Fines or Penalties

• The amount(s) you won or lost.

Generally, a deduction is allowed for fines and penalties
paid to a government or specified nongovernmental entity
for the violation of any law in the following situations.

Proof of winnings and losses. In addition to your diary,
you should also have other documentation. You can generally prove your winnings and losses through Form
W-2G, Certain Gambling Winnings; Form 5754, Statement by Person(s) Receiving Gambling Winnings; wagering tickets; canceled checks; substitute checks; credit records; bank withdrawals; and statements of actual
winnings or payment slips provided to you by the gambling establishment.
For specific wagering transactions, you can use the following items to support your winnings and losses.

• Certain amounts that constitute restitution.
• Certain amounts paid to come into compliance with
the law.

• Amounts paid or incurred as the result of certain court
orders in which no government or specified nongovernmental agency is a party.

• Amounts paid or incurred for taxes due.
Nondeductible amounts include an amount paid in settlement of your actual or potential liability for a fine or penalty (civil or criminal). Fines or penalties include amounts
paid such as parking tickets, tax penalties, and penalties
deducted from teachers' paychecks after an illegal strike.
No deduction is allowed for the restitution amount or
amount paid to come into compliance with the law unless
the amounts are specifically identified in the settlement
agreement or court order. Also, any amount paid or incurred as reimbursement to the government for the costs of
any investigation or litigation are nondeductible.

Gambling Losses Up to the Amount of
Gambling Winnings
You must report the full amount of your gambling winnings
for the year on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040). You deduct
your gambling losses for the year on your Schedule A
(Form 1040). Gambling losses include the actual cost of
Page 10

These recordkeeping suggestions are intended
as general guidelines to help you establish your
CAUTION winnings and losses. They aren't all-inclusive.
Your tax liability depends on your particular facts and circumstances.

!

Keno. Copies of the keno tickets you purchased that
were validated by the gambling establishment, copies of
your casino credit records, and copies of your casino
check-cashing records.
Slot machines. A record of the machine number and
all winnings by date and time the machine was played.
Table games (twenty-one (blackjack), craps,
poker, baccarat, roulette, wheel of fortune, etc.). The
number of the table at which you were playing. Casino
credit card data indicating whether the credit was issued
in the pit or at the cashier's cage.
Bingo. A record of the number of games played, cost
of tickets purchased, and amounts collected on winning
Publication 529 (December 2020)

tickets. Supplemental records include any receipts from
the casino, parlor, etc.

and Pub. 547, Casualties, Disasters, and Thefts, for more
information.

Racing (horse, harness, dog, etc.). A record of the
races, amounts of wagers, amounts collected on winning
tickets, and amounts lost on losing tickets. Supplemental
records include unredeemed tickets and payment records
from the racetrack.

Repayments Under Claim of Right

Lotteries. A record of ticket purchases, dates, winnings, and losses. Supplemental records include unredeemed tickets, payment slips, and winnings statements.

If you had to repay more than $3,000 that you included in
your income in an earlier year because at the time you
thought you had an unrestricted right to it, you may be
able to deduct the amount you repaid, or take a credit
against your tax. See Repayments in Pub. 525 for more
information.

Home Office

Unlawful Discrimination Claims

If you use a part of your home regularly and exclusively to
conduct business, you may be able to deduct a part of the
operating expenses and depreciation of your home.

You may be able to deduct, as an adjustment to income
on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040), attorney fees and court
costs for actions settled or decided after October 22,
2004, involving a claim of unlawful discrimination, a claim
against the U.S. Government, or a claim made under section 1862(b)(3)(A) of the Social Security Act. However, the
amount you can deduct on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
is limited to the amount of the judgment or settlement you
are including in income for the tax year. See Pub. 525 for
more information.

You can claim this deduction for the business use of a
part of your home only if you use that part of your home
regularly and exclusively:

• As your principal place of business for any trade or
business;

• As a place to meet or deal with your patients, clients,
or customers in the normal course of your trade or
business; or

• In the case of a separate structure not attached to

your home, in connection with your trade or business.

Principal place of business. If you have more than one
place of business, the business part of your home is your
principal place of business if:

• You use it regularly and exclusively for administrative
or management activities of your trade or business,
and

• You have no other fixed location where you conduct

substantial administrative or management activities of
your trade or business.

Otherwise, the location of your principal place of business generally depends on the relative importance of the
activities performed at each location and the time spent at
each location.
You should keep records that will give the information needed to figure the deduction according
RECORDS to these rules. Also keep canceled checks, substitute checks, or account statements and receipts of the
expenses paid to prove the deductions you claim.
More information. See Pub. 587 for more detailed information and a worksheet for figuring the deduction.

Losses From Ponzi-Type Investment
Schemes
These losses are deductible as theft losses of income-producing property on your tax return for the year
the loss was discovered. You figure the deductible loss in
Section B of Form 4684. See the Form 4684 instructions
Publication 529 (December 2020)

Unrecovered Investment in Annuity
A retiree who contributed to the cost of an annuity can exclude from income a part of each payment received as a
tax-free return of the retiree's investment. If the retiree
dies before the entire investment is recovered tax free,
any unrecovered investment can be deducted on the retiree's final income tax return. See Pub. 575, Pension and
Annuity Income, for more information about the tax treatment of pensions and annuities.

How To Report
Claim most deductions as an itemized deduction on your
Schedule A (Form 1040), or Schedule A (Form 1040-NR).
However, see Schedule 1 (Form 1040), later.
Reporting employee business expenses. As described earlier in Unreimbursed Employee Expenses, there
are four categories of employees who can claim deductions for unreimbursed employee expenses.
Employees in the following categories can claim their
unreimbursed employee expenses.

• Armed Forces reservists.
• Qualified performing artists.
• Fee-basis state or local government officials.
• Employees with impairment-related work expenses.
Generally, nonresident aliens who fall into one of
the qualified categories of employment are alCAUTION lowed deductions to the extent they are directly
related to income which is effectively connected with the
conduct of a trade or business within the United States.

!

Page 11

Form 2106. If you have deductible employee business
expenses, you must usually file Form 2106.
You must file Form 2106 if any of the following applies
to you.
1. You are a qualified performing artist claiming performing-artist-related expenses.
2. You are a fee-basis state or local government official
claiming expenses in performing that job.
3. You are an individual with a disability and are claiming
impairment-related work expenses. See Employees
with impairment-related work expenses, later.
4. You have travel expenses as a member of the Armed
Forces reserves that you can deduct as an adjustment to gross income.
5. You are claiming job-related vehicle, travel, transportation, or non-entertainment meal expenses. See the
Instructions for Form 2106 for more information.
Depreciation. Use Form 4562, to claim the depreciation
deduction for a computer you placed in service after 2018.
Complete Form 4562, if you are claiming a section 179
deduction.
Don't use Form 4562 to claim the depreciation deduction for a computer you placed in service before 2019 and
used only in your home office, unless you are otherwise
required to file Form 4562. Instead, report the depreciation directly on the appropriate form.
Employees with impairment-related work expenses.
Most of the categories of employees who are able to claim
deductions for unreimbursed employees report these deductions as an adjustment to income on Schedule 1
(Form 1040), discussed next. However, employees with
impairment-related work expenses on Form 2106 report
these expenses on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Enter impairment-related work expenses on Form
2106. Enter on your Schedule A (Form 1040); or your
Schedule A (Form 1040-NR), that part of the amount on
Form 2106, that is related to your impairment. Those employment-related expenses not related to your impairment
are a miscellaneous itemized deduction and are no longer
deductible.
If you are self-employed, enter your impairment-related
work expenses on the appropriate Form (Schedule C, E,
or F) used to report your business income and expenses.
Example. You are blind. You must use a reader to do
your work. You use the reader both during your regular
working hours at your place of work and outside your regular working hours away from your place of work. The
reader's services are only for your work. You can deduct
your expenses for the reader as impairment-related work
expenses.

Schedule 1 (Form 1040)
Most deductible employee business expenses on Form
2106 are reported as an adjustment to income on your

Page 12

Schedule 1 (Form 1040). However, certain other expenses are deducted on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Educator expenses. Certain qualified expenses of eligible educators can be deducted on your Schedule 1 (Form
1040).
Unlawful discrimination claims. You can deduct certain attorney fees and court costs for unlawful discrimination claims, described earlier, on your Schedule 1 (Form
1040).

Example
Debra Smith is an army reservist stationed 110 miles from
her home. She makes this trip once each month. In addition to her travel expenses, she pays for her own uniforms
and for the cost of cleaning those uniforms.
In addition to her employee business expenses as an
army reservist, she has gambling losses from her trips to
the casino and race track. She has gambling winnings of
$5,400 and gambling losses of $5,700.
Debra completes Form 2106. She enters her transportation expenses of $500 as a reservist and she enters the
amount of her expenses for the purchase of uniforms and
their cleaning, $250. She then completes the form, entering the $750 as her total expenses. Only the transportation expenses for travel as a reservist are deductible as an
adjustment on her Schedule 1 (Form 1040). The $250 is a
miscellaneous itemized deduction and is not deductible.
Debra claims her gambling losses that don’t exceed
her gambling winnings as an itemized deduction. Debra
enters her allowable loss ($5,400) on her Schedule A
(Form 1040).

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue, need help preparing your tax return, or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov and find resources
that can help you right away.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Form W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Go to IRS.gov to see
your options for preparing and filing your return online or

Publication 529 (December 2020)

in your local community, if you qualify, which include the
following.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your

federal individual income tax return for free using
brand-name tax-preparation-and-filing software or
Free File fillable forms. However, state tax preparation
may not be available through Free File. Go to IRS.gov/
FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online federal tax
preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE, download the free IRS2Go app,
or call 888-227-7669 for information on free tax return
preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and

qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service
offered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource.
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then filed electronically regardless of income.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EIC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN).

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4app)

makes it easier for everyone to pay the correct amount
of tax during the year. The tool is a convenient, online
way to check and tailor your withholding. It’s more
user-friendly for taxpayers, including retirees and
self-employed individuals. The features include the
following.

– Easy to understand language.
– The ability to switch between screens, correct previous entries, and skip screens that don’t apply.

– Tips and links to help you determine if you qualify
for tax credits and deductions.

– Automatic calculation of taxable social security benefits.

• The First Time Homebuyer Credit Account Look-up
(IRS.gov/HomeBuyer) tool provides information on
your repayments and account balance.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On
IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
current events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.

• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions on a number of tax law topics
and provide answers.

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publications. You will find details on 2020 tax changes and
hundreds of interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax law information in
your electronic filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including tax preparers, enrolled agents, certified public accountants (CPAs),
attorneys, and many others who don’t have professional
credentials. If you choose to have someone prepare your
tax return, choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification
number (PTIN).

Although the tax preparer always signs the return,
you're ultimately responsible for providing all the information required for the preparer to accurately prepare your
return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns for others
should have a thorough understanding of tax matters. For
more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to
Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.
Coronavirus. Go to IRS.gov/Coronavirus for links to information on the impact of the coronavirus, as well as tax
relief available for individuals and families, small and large
businesses, and tax-exempt organizations.
Tax reform. Tax reform legislation affects individuals,
businesses, and tax-exempt and government entities. Go
to IRS.gov/TaxReform for information and updates on
how this legislation affects your taxes.

– A progress tracker.
– A self-employment tax feature.

Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
online W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled

Publication 529 (December 2020)

Page 13

agents, and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage
and Tax Statement, and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and
Tax Statement.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are
paramount. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don’t post your SSN or other confidential information on social media sites. Always protect your identity when using any social networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English,
Spanish, and ASL.

• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Watching IRS videos. The IRS Video portal
(IRSVideos.gov) contains video and audio presentations
for individuals, small businesses, and tax professionals.
Online tax information in other languages. You can
find information on IRS.gov/MyLanguage if English isn’t
your native language.
Free interpreter service. Multilingual assistance, provided by the IRS, is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs) and other IRS offices. Over-the-phone interpreter service is accessible in more than 350 languages.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all of the forms, instructions, and publications you may need. You can also download and view popular tax publications and instructions
(including the Instructions for Forms 1040 and 1040-SR)
on mobile devices as an eBook at IRS.gov/eBooks. Or
you can go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.

• View the amount you owe, pay online, or set up an online payment agreement.

• Access your tax records online.
• Review your payment history.
• Go to IRS.gov/SecureAccess to review the required
identity authentication process.

Using direct deposit. The fastest way to receive a tax
refund is to file electronically and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in 10 taxpayers
use direct deposit to receive their refunds. The IRS issues
more than 90% of refunds in less than 21 days.

Page 14

Getting a transcript of your return. The quickest way
to get a copy of your tax transcript is to go to IRS.gov/
Transcripts. Click on either “Get Transcript Online” or “Get
Transcript by Mail” to order a free copy of your transcript.
If you prefer, you can order your transcript by calling
800-908-9946.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages, telephone calls, or social media
channels to request personal or financial information.
This includes requests for personal identification numbers (PINs), passwords, or similar information for
credit cards, banks, or other financial accounts.

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are

six-digit numbers assigned to eligible taxpayers to
help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent
federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN,
it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with
your SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

Checking on the status of your refund.

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February 2021
for returns that claimed the EIC or the additional child
tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire refund,
not just the portion associated with these credits.

• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
Making a tax payment. The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to ensure your electronic payments are
safe and secure. You can make electronic payments online, by phone, and from a mobile device using the
IRS2Go app. Paying electronically is quick, easy, and
faster than mailing in a check or money order. Go to
IRS.gov/Payments for information on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

• IRS Direct Pay: Pay your individual tax bill or estimated tax payment directly from your checking or savings account at no cost to you.

• Debit or Credit Card: Choose an approved payment
processor to pay online, by phone, or by mobile device.

Publication 529 (December 2020)

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Offered only when filing

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: Best option

What Is TAS?

your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.

for businesses. Enrollment is required.

• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and cut-off times.

What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.

• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/

OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if

you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

Filing an amended return. You can now file Form
1040-X electronically with tax filing software to amend
2019 Forms 1040 and 1040-SR. To do so, you must have
e-filed your original 2019 return. Amended returns for all
prior years must be mailed. See Tips for taxpayers who
need to file an amended tax return and go to IRS.gov/
Form1040X for information and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns. Please note that it can take up to 3 weeks
from the date you filed your amended return for it to show
up in our system, and processing it can take up to 16
weeks.
Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
Contacting your local IRS office. Keep in mind, many
questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting an
IRS Taxpayer Assistance Center (TAC). Go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about most. If you still
need help, IRS TACs provide tax help when a tax issue
can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance
that you can get the service you need without long wait
times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TACLocator to find
the nearest TAC and to check hours, available services,
and appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app, under
the Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option
and click on “Local Offices.”

Publication 529 (December 2020)

TAS is an independent organization within the IRS that
helps taxpayers and protects taxpayer rights. Their job is
to ensure that every taxpayer is treated fairly and that you
know and understand your rights under the Taxpayer Bill
of Rights.

How Can You Learn About Your Taxpayer
Rights?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes 10 basic rights that
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to
TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov to help you understand what
these rights mean to you and how they apply. These are
your rights. Know them. Use them.

What Can TAS Do For You?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you can’t resolve
with the IRS. And their service is free. If you qualify for
their assistance, you will be assigned to one advocate
who will work with you throughout the process and will do
everything possible to resolve your issue. TAS can help
you if:

• Your problem is causing financial difficulty for you,
your family, or your business;

• You face (or your business is facing) an immediate
threat of adverse action; or

• You’ve tried repeatedly to contact the IRS but no one
has responded, or the IRS hasn’t responded by the
date promised.

How Can You Reach TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
and Puerto Rico. Your local advocate’s number is in your
local directory and at TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/
Contact-Us. You can also call them at 877-777-4778.

How Else Does TAS Help Taxpayers?
TAS works to resolve large-scale problems that affect
many taxpayers. If you know of one of these broad issues,
please report it to them at IRS.gov/SAMS.

TAS for Tax Professionals
TAS can provide a variety of information for tax professionals, including tax law updates and guidance, TAS programs, and ways to let TAS know about systemic problems you’ve seen in your practice.

Low Income Taxpayer Clinics (LITCs)
LITCs are independent from the IRS. LITCs represent individuals whose income is below a certain level and need
Page 15

to resolve tax problems with the IRS, such as audits, appeals, and tax collection disputes. In addition, clinics can
provide information about taxpayer rights and responsibilities in different languages for individuals who speak English as a second language. Services are offered for free or

Page 16

a small fee for eligible taxpayers. To find a clinic near you,
visit TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/about/LITC or see IRS
Pub. 4134, Low Income Taxpayer Clinic List.

Publication 529 (December 2020)

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

A

Activities not for profit 4
Adjustments to gross income:
Armed forces reservists' travel
expenses 2
Performing artists 3
State or local government officials paid on
fee basis 3
Unlawful discrimination claims 11
Administrative fees:
IRA trustees 6
Adoption expenses 6
Amortizable bond premium 9
Appraisal fees 4
Armed forces:
Reservists, travel expenses 2
Assistance (See Tax help)

B

Bank accounts:
Check-writing fees 6
Losses on deposits 5
Bonds:
Amortizable premium 9
Bribes 6
Burial expenses 6

C

Campaign contributions 8
Campaign expenses 6
Capital expenditures 6
Casualty losses 4, 9
Check-writing fees 6
Claim of right repayments 11
Clerical help, deductibility of 4
Club dues 6
Commissions 6
Commuting expenses 7
Computers:
Depreciation 4
Convenience fees 4

D

Deductions 10
Deposits:
Losses on 5
Depreciation:
Computers 4
Disabilities, persons with:
Work-related expenses 3
Dividends:
Fees to collect 4
Service charges on reinvestment plans 5
Dues:
Club 6
Lobbying 7

E

Educator Expenses 3, 12
Employee business expenses:
Form 2106 12
Performing artists 3
Entertainers and
musicians (See Performing artists)
Estates:
Federal estate tax 10
Excess deductions:
Estates and trusts 10

Publication 529 (December 2020)

Expenses:
Adoption 6
Campaign 6
Capital 6
Commuting 7
Educator 3
Qualified 3
Educator Expenses 3
Funeral and burial 6
Health spa 7
Hobby 4
Home office 11
Impairment-related 3
Investment 5, 7
Meals 8
Professional promotion 8
Tax-exempt income 8

F

Federal estate tax 10
Fees:
Appraisal 4
Check-writing 6
Investment 4, 5
IRA trustee 6
Professional accreditation 8
Fines 10
Fines or penalties:
Deductible 10
Nondeductible 7
Form 2106:
Employee business expenses 12
Form 4562:
Depreciation and amortization 12
Funeral expenses 6

G

Gambling winnings and losses 10
Government employees:
State or local government officials paid on
fee basis 3

H

Health spa 7
Hobbies 4
Home:
Security system 7
Telephone service 8
Home office:
Expenses 11
Principal place of business 11

I

Impairment-related work expenses 3
Income in respect of decedent:
Estate tax 10
Individual retirement arrangements
(IRAs):
Trustees' fees 6
Insurance:
Life insurance 7
Personal disability 6
Interest income:
Fees to collect 4
Investments:
Annuity, unrecovered investment in 11
Deposits, losses on 5
Fees and expenses 5
Seminars 7

Itemized deductions 9
How to report 11

K

Kickbacks 6

L

Legal expenses:
Personal 8
Political campaigns 6
Production of income 5
Unlawful discrimination claims 5
Life insurance 7
Lobbying 7, 8
Losses:
Casualties and thefts 4, 9
Deposits 5
Gambling 10
IRA 5
Mislaid cash or property 8
Roth IRA 5

M

Meal and lodging expenses:
Lunches with coworkers 8
Working late 8
Missing children, photographs of 1
Mutual funds:
Indirect deductions 5

N

Nondeductible expenses 9
Not-for-profit activities 4

O

Office:
Rent 4

P

Partnerships:
Indirect deductions 5
Pass-through entities 5
Penalties 10
Performing artists 3
Work clothes 3
Personal expenses 9
Political contributions 8
Campaign expenses 6
Ponzi-type investment schemes 11
Production of income expenses 5
Professional accreditation fees 8
Professional reputation and marketing 8
Publications (See Tax help)

R

Recordkeeping requirements:
Deductions, to verify 2
Gambling winnings and losses 10
Home office 11
Relief fund contributions 8
Rent:
Office 4
Safe deposit box 5

Page 17

Repayments:
Claim of right 11
Income 5
Social Security benefits 5
Reporting requirements:
Depreciation 12
Form 2106 12
Impairment-related work expenses 3
Itemized deductions 11

S

Safe deposit box 5
S corporations:
Indirect deductions 5
Security systems, home 7
Seminars, investment-related 7
Service charges on dividend
reinvestment plans 5

Page 18

Social Security repayments 5
State or local governments:
Officials paid on fee basis 3
Stockholders' meeting expenses 8

Trustees:
IRA administrative fees 6

T

Unemployment benefit fund
contributions 9
Unlawful discrimination claims 11, 12

Taxes:
Estate tax 10
Tax-exempt income expenses 8
Tax help 12
Telephones:
Residential service 8
Theft losses 4, 9
Travel and transportation expenses:
Another individual, paid by taxpayer 8
Armed forces reservists 2
Commuting 7

U

W

Wagering winnings and losses 10
Work:
Impairment-related expenses 3
Wristwatches 6, 9

Publication 529 (December 2020)

