Publication 535

Contents

Business
Expenses

Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Cat. No. 15065Z
Department
of the
Treasury
Internal
Revenue
Service

For use in preparing

2022 Returns

What's New for 2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
What's New for 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Chapter 1. Deducting
Business Expenses

.......... 3

Chapter 2. Employees' Pay . . . . . . . . 8
Chapter 3. Rent Expense

. . . . . . . . 11

Chapter 4. Interest

. . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Chapter 5. Taxes

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

Chapter 6. Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Chapter 7. Costs You Can Deduct
or Capitalize . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Chapter 8. Amortization . . . . . . . . . 29
Chapter 9. Depletion . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Chapter 10. Business Bad Debts . . . . 41
Chapter 11. Other Expenses

. . . . . . 43

Chapter 12. How To Get Tax Help . . . 50
The Taxpayer Advocate Service
(TAS) Is Here To Help You . . . . . 54
Index

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Introduction
This publication discusses common business
expenses and explains what is and is not deductible. The general rules for deducting business expenses are discussed in the opening
chapter. The chapters that follow cover specific
expenses and list other publications and forms
you may need.
Note. Section references within this publication are to the Internal Revenue Code and regulation references are to the Income Tax Regulations under the Code.

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Feb 2, 2023

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Comments and suggestions. We welcome
your comments about this publication and your
suggestions for future editions.
You can send us comments through
IRS.gov/FormComments. Or you can write to
the Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and
Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW,
IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we cannot respond individually to
each comment received, we do appreciate your
feedback and will consider your comments and
suggestions as we revise our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions.
If you have a tax question not answered by this

publication or the How To Get Tax Help section
at the end of this publication, go to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the
search feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications. Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download
current and prior-year forms, instructions, and
publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and
publications. Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to
order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order prior-year
forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon
as possible. Don’t resubmit requests you've already sent us. You can get forms and publications faster online.

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments
related to Pub. 535, such as legislation enacted
after it was published, go to IRS.gov/Pub535.

What's New for 2022
The following items highlight some changes in
the tax law for 2022.
Form 1099-K reporting transition period.
The transition period described in Notice
2023-10 delays the reporting of transactions in
excess of $600 to transactions that occur after
calendar year 2022. The transition period is intended to facilitate an orderly transition for
TPSO tax compliance, as well as individual
payee compliance with income tax reporting. A
participating payee, in the case of a third-party
network transaction, is any person who accepts
payment from a third-party settlement organization for a business transaction.
The COVID-19 related credit for qualified
sick and family leave wages is limited to
leave taken after March 31, 2020, and before October 1, 2021. Generally, the credit
for qualified sick and family leave wages, as
enacted under the Families First Coronavirus
Response Act (FFCRA) and amended and extended by the COVID-related Tax Relief Act of
2020, for leave taken after March 31, 2020, and
before April 1, 2021, and the credit for qualified
sick and family leave wages under sections
3131, 3132, and 3133 of the Internal Revenue
Code, as enacted under the American Rescue
Plan Act of 2021 (the ARP), for leave taken after
March 31, 2021, and before October 1, 2021,
have expired. However, employers that pay
qualified sick and family leave wages in 2022
for leave taken after March 31, 2020, and before October 1, 2021, are eligible to claim a
credit for qualified sick and family leave wages
in 2022. For more information, see chapter 2.
The COVID-19 related employee retention
credit has expired. The employee retention
credit enacted under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act and
amended and extended by the Taxpayer Certainty and Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2020 was
limited to qualified wages paid after March 12,
Page 2

2020, and before July 1, 2021. The employee
retention credit under section 3134 of the Internal Revenue Code, as enacted by the ARP and
amended by the Infrastructure Investment and
Jobs Act, was limited to wages paid after June
30, 2021, and before October 1, 2021, unless
the employer was a recovery startup business.
An employer that was a recovery startup business could also claim the employee retention
credit for wages paid after September 30, 2021,
and before January 1, 2022. For more information, see chapter 2.
Credit for COBRA premium assistance payments is limited to periods of coverage beginning on or after April 1, 2021, through
periods of coverage beginning on or before
September 30, 2021. Section 9501 of the
ARP provides for COBRA premium assistance
in the form of a full reduction in the premium
otherwise payable by certain individuals and
their families who elect COBRA continuation
coverage due to a loss of coverage as the result
of a reduction in hours or an involuntary termination of employment (assistance eligible individuals). This COBRA premium assistance is
available for periods of coverage beginning on
or after April 1, 2021, through periods of coverage beginning on or before September 30,
2021. For more information, see chapter 2.
Advance payment of COVID-19 credits extended. You may no longer request an advance payment of any credit on Form 7200, Advance Payment of Employer Credits Due to
COVID-19. For more information, see chapter 2.
Research and experimental costs. Beginning January 1, 2022, research and experimental expenditures, generally, have to be amortized over a 5-year period. A business cannot
elect to deduct their total research expenses in
the current year. For more information, see
chapter 7.
Amortization of research and experimental
expenditures. Specified research or experimental costs paid or incurred in tax years beginning after 2021 must be capitalized and amortized ratably over a 5-year period (15-year
period for any expenditures related to foreign
research). For more information, see chapter 8.
Corporate alternative minimum tax reinstated in 2023. P.L. 117-169, dated August 16,
2022, amended section 55 to impose a corporate alternative minimum tax. The amendment
applies to tax years beginning after 2022. For
more information, see chapter 9.
Excise tax on Black Lung Benefits now permanent. P.L. 117-169 also amended section
4121 to eliminate the reduction in tax on coal
from mines located in the United States sold by
the producer. The amendment applies to sales
in calendar quarters beginning after August 17,
2022. For more information, see chapter 9.
Standard mileage rate. For tax year 2022, the
standard mileage rate for the cost of operating
your car, van, pickup, or panel truck for each
mile of business use is:
• 58.5 cents per mile from January 1, 2022,
through June 30, 2022; and
• 62.5 cents per mile from July 1, 2022,
through December 31, 2022.
For more information, see chapter 11.

What's New for 2023
The following item highlights a change in the tax
law for 2023.
Most current standard mileage rate. For the
most current standard mileage rates, go to
IRS.gov/Tax-Professionals/Standard-MileageRates.
The following item highlights a change
regarding this publication.
Final revision. Pub. 535 will no longer be revised and published. The 2022 edition will be
the final revision available.

Reminders
The following reminders and other items may
help you file your tax return.

IRS e-file (Electronic Filing)

You can file your tax returns electronically
using an IRS e-file option. The benefits of IRS
e-file include faster refunds, increased
accuracy, and acknowledgment of IRS receipt
of your return. You can use one of the following
IRS e-file options.
• Use an authorized IRS e-file provider.
• Use a personal computer.
• Visit a Volunteer Income Tax Assistance
(VITA) or Tax Counseling for the Elderly
(TCE) site.
For details on these fast filing methods, see
your income tax package.
Form 1099-MISC. File Form 1099-MISC, Miscellaneous Income, for each person to whom
you have paid during the year in the course of
your trade or business at least $600 in rents,
prizes and awards, other income payments,
medical and health care payments, and crop insurance proceeds. See the Instructions for
Forms 1099-MISC and 1099-NEC for more information and additional reporting requirements.
Form 1099-NEC. File Form 1099-NEC, Nonemployee Compensation, for each person to
whom you have paid during the year in the
course of your trade or business at least $600 in
services (including parts and materials), who is
not your employee. See the Instructions for
Forms 1099-MISC and 1099-NEC for more information and additional reporting requirements.
Gig Economy Tax Center. The IRS Gig Economy Tax Center on IRS.gov can help people in
this growing area meet their tax obligations
through more streamlined information.
The gig economy is also known as the sharing, on-demand, or access economy. It usually
includes businesses that operate an app or
website to connect people to provide services
to customers. While there are many types of gig
economy businesses, ride-sharing and home
rentals are two of the most popular.
Publication 535 (2022)

The Gig Economy Tax Center streamlines
various resources, making it easier for taxpayers to find information about the tax implications
for the companies that provide the services and
the individuals who perform them. It offers tips
and resources on a variety of topics including:
• Filing requirements;
• Making quarterly estimated income tax
payments;
• Paying self-employment taxes;
• Paying FICA, Medicare, and Additional
Medicare taxes;
• Deductible business expenses; and
• Special rules for reporting vacation home
rentals.
For more information, go to the Gig
Economy Tax Center at IRS.gov/Gig.
Photographs of missing children. The Internal Revenue Service is a proud partner with the
National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing
children selected by the Center may appear in
this publication on pages that would otherwise
be blank. You can help bring these children
home by looking at the photographs and calling
1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) (24 hours
a day, 7 days a week) if you recognize a child.
Preventing slavery and human trafficking.
Human trafficking is a form of modern-day slavery, and involves the use of force, fraud, or coercion to exploit human beings for some type of
labor or commercial sex purpose. The United
States is a source, transit, and destination
country for men, women, and children, both
U.S. citizens and foreign nationals, who are
subjected to the injustices of slavery and human trafficking, including forced labor, debt
bondage, involuntary servitude, “mail-order”
marriages, and sex trafficking. Trafficking in
persons can occur in both lawful and illicit industries or markets, including in hotel services,
hospitality, agriculture, manufacturing, janitorial
services, construction, health and elder care,
domestic service, brothels, massage parlors,
and street prostitution, among others.
The President’s Interagency Task Force to
Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons
(PITF) brings together federal departments and
agencies to ensure a whole-of-government approach that addresses all aspects of human
trafficking. Online resources for recognizing and
reporting trafficking activities, and assisting victims include the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Blue Campaign at DHS.gov/bluecampaign, the Department of State Office to
Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons at
State.gov/j/tip, and the National Human Trafficking Resource Center (NHTRC) at
humantraffickinghotline.org. DHS is responsible
for investigating human trafficking, arresting
traffickers, and protecting victims. DHS also
provides immigration relief to non-U.S. citizen
victims of human trafficking. DHS uses a victimcentered approach to combating human trafficking, which places equal value on identifying
and stabilizing victims and on investigating and
prosecuting traffickers. Victims are crucial to investigations and prosecutions; each case and
every conviction changes lives. DHS understands how difficult it can be for victims to come
forward and work with law enforcement due to
their trauma. DHS is committed to helping victims feel stable, safe, and secure.

To report suspected human trafficking, call
the DHS domestic 24-hour toll-free number at
866-DHS-2-ICE
(866-347-2423)
or
802-872-6199 (non-toll-free international). For
help from the NHTRC, call the National Human
Trafficking Hotline toll free at 888-373-7888 or
text HELP or INFO to BeFree (233733).
The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
has issued a public advisory to financial institutions that contains red flag indicators for potential suspicious financial activity associated with
human trafficking. If warranted, financial institutions should file a Suspicious Activity Report
(FinCEN 112) with FinCEN to report these activities. For more information, go to Fincen.gov/
Sites/default/files/advisory/FIN-2014-A008.pdf.

925 Passive Activity and At-Risk Rules
925

936 Home Mortgage Interest
Deduction
936

946 How To Depreciate Property
946

Form (and Instructions)
Schedule A (Form 1040) Itemized
Deductions
Schedule A (Form 1040)

5213 Election To Postpone
Determination as To Whether the
Presumption Applies That an
Activity Is Engaged in for Profit
5213

See chapter 12 for information about getting
publications and forms.

What Can I Deduct?
To be deductible, a business expense must be
both ordinary and necessary. An ordinary expense is one that is common and accepted in
your industry. A necessary expense is one that
is helpful and appropriate for your trade or business. An expense does not have to be indispensable to be considered necessary.

1.
Deducting
Business
Expenses
Introduction
This chapter covers the general rules for deducting business expenses. Business expenses are the costs of carrying on a trade or business, and they are usually deductible if the
business is operated to make a profit.

Cost of Goods Sold
If your business manufactures products or purchases them for resale, you must generally
value inventory at the beginning and end of
each tax year to determine your cost of goods
sold. Some of your business expenses may be
included in figuring cost of goods sold. Cost of
goods sold is deducted from your gross receipts to figure your gross profit for the year. If
you include an expense in the cost of goods
sold, you cannot deduct it again as a business
expense.

Topics

This chapter discusses:

•
•
•
•

Even though an expense may be ordinary
and necessary, you may not be allowed to deduct the expense in the year you paid or incurred it. In some cases, you may not be allowed
to deduct the expense at all. Therefore, it is important to distinguish usual business expenses
from expenses that include the following.
• The expenses used to figure cost of goods
sold.
• Capital expenses.
• Personal expenses.

What you can deduct
How much you can deduct
When you can deduct
Not-for-profit activities

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
334 Tax Guide for Small Business
334

463 Travel, Gift, and Car Expenses
463

525 Taxable and Nontaxable Income
525

529 Miscellaneous Deductions
529

536 Net Operating Losses (NOLs) for
Individuals, Estates, and Trusts

The following are types of expenses that go
into figuring cost of goods sold.
• The cost of products or raw materials, including freight.
• Storage.
• Direct labor (including contributions to pension or annuity plans) for workers who produce the products.
• Factory overhead.

536

538 Accounting Periods and Methods
538

542 Corporations
542

547 Casualties, Disasters, and Thefts
547

583 Starting a Business and Keeping
Records
583

587 Business Use of Your Home
587

Chapter 1

Under the uniform capitalization rules, you
must capitalize the direct costs and part of the
indirect costs for certain production or resale
activities. Indirect costs include rent, interest,
taxes, storage, purchasing, processing, repackaging, handling, and administrative costs.
This rule does not apply to small business
taxpayers. You qualify as a small business taxpayer if you (a) have average annual gross
Deducting Business Expenses

Page 3

receipts of $27 million or less for the 3 prior tax
years, and (b) are not a tax shelter (as defined
in section 448(d)(3)). If your business has not
been in existence for all of the 3-tax-year period
used in figuring average gross receipts, base
your average on the period it has existed, and if
your business has a predecessor entity, include
the gross receipts of the predecessor entity
from the 3-tax-year period when figuring average gross receipts. If your business (or predecessor entity) had short tax years for any of the
3-tax-year period, annualize your business’
gross receipts for the short tax years that are
part of the 3-tax-year period. See Pub. 538 for
more information.
For more information, see the following
sources.
• Cost of goods sold—chapter 6 of Pub.
334.
• Inventories—Pub. 538.
• Uniform capitalization rules—Pub. 538 and
section 263A and the related regulations.

Capital Expenses
You must capitalize, rather than deduct, some
costs. These costs are a part of your investment
in your business and are called “capital expenses.” Capital expenses are considered assets
in your business. In general, you capitalize
three types of costs.
• Business startup costs (see Tip below).
• Business assets.
• Improvements.
You can elect to deduct or amortize

TIP certain business startup costs. See
chapters 7 and 8.

Cost recovery. Although you generally cannot
take a current deduction for a capital expense,
you may be able to recover the amount you
spend through depreciation, amortization, or
depletion. These recovery methods allow you to
deduct part of your cost each year. In this way,
you are able to recover your capital expense.
See Amortization (chapter 8) and Depletion
(chapter 9) in this publication. A taxpayer can
elect to deduct a portion of the costs of certain
depreciable property as a section 179 deduction. A greater portion of these costs can be deducted if the property is qualified disaster assistance property. See Pub. 946 for details.

Going Into Business
The costs of getting started in business, before
you actually begin business operations, are
capital expenses. These costs may include expenses for advertising, travel, or wages for
training employees.
If you go into business. When you go into
business, treat all costs you had to get your
business started as capital expenses.
Usually, you recover costs for a particular
asset through depreciation. Generally, you cannot recover other costs until you sell the business or otherwise go out of business. However,
you can choose to amortize certain costs for
setting up your business. See Starting a Business in chapter 8 for more information on business startup costs.
Page 4

Chapter 1

If your attempt to go into business is unsuccessful. If you are an individual and your
attempt to go into business is not successful,
the expenses you had in trying to establish
yourself in business fall into two categories.
1. The costs you had before making a decision to acquire or begin a specific business. These costs are personal and nondeductible. They include any costs
incurred during a general search for, or
preliminary investigation of, a business or
investment possibility.
2. The costs you had in your attempt to acquire or begin a specific business. These
costs are capital expenses and you can
deduct them as a capital loss.
If you are a corporation and your attempt to
go into a new trade or business is not successful, you may be able to deduct all investigatory
costs as a loss.
The costs of any assets acquired during
your unsuccessful attempt to go into business
are a part of your basis in the assets. You cannot take a deduction for these costs. You will recover the costs of these assets when you dispose of them.

Business Assets
There are many different kinds of business assets, for example, land, buildings, machinery,
furniture, trucks, patents, and franchise rights.
You must fully capitalize the cost of these assets, including freight and installation charges.
Certain property you produce for use in your
trade or business must be capitalized under the
uniform capitalization rules. See Regulations
section 1.263A-2 for information on these rules.

De Minimis Safe Harbor for
Tangible Property
Although you must generally capitalize costs to
acquire or produce real or tangible personal
property used in your trade or business, such
as buildings, equipment, or furniture, you can
elect to use a de minimis safe harbor to deduct
the costs of some tangible property. Under the
de minimis safe harbor for tangible property,
you can deduct de minimis amounts paid to acquire or produce certain tangible business property if these amounts are deducted by you for financial accounting purposes or in keeping your
books and records. See the following for the requirements for the de minimis safe harbor.
You have an applicable financial statement.
If you elect the de minimis safe harbor for the
tax year, you can deduct amounts paid to acquire or produce certain tangible business property if:
• You have a trade or business or are a corporation, partnership, or S corporation that
has an applicable financial statement;
• You have, at the beginning of the tax year,
written accounting procedures treating as
an expense for nontax purposes:

Deducting Business Expenses

– Amounts paid for property costing
less than a certain dollar amount, or

– Amounts paid for property with an
economic useful life of 12 months or
less;
• You treat the amount paid during the tax
year for which you make the election as an
expense on your applicable financial statements in accordance with your written accounting procedures;
• The amount paid for the property does not
exceed $5,000 per invoice (or per item
substantiated by invoice); and
• The uniform capitalization rules do not apply to the amount.
You do not have an applicable financial
statement. If you elect the de minimis safe
harbor for the tax year, you can deduct amounts
paid to acquire or produce certain tangible business property if:
• You have a trade or business, partnership,
or S corporation that does not have an applicable financial statement;
• You have, at the beginning of the tax year,
accounting procedures treating as an expense for nontax purposes:
– Amounts paid for property costing
less than a certain dollar amount, or
– Amounts paid for property with an
economic useful life of 12 months or
less;
• You treat the amounts paid for the property
as an expense on your books and records
in accordance with your accounting procedures;
• The amount paid for the property does not
exceed $2,500 per invoice (or per item
substantiated by invoice); and
• The uniform capitalization rules do not apply to the amounts.
How to make the de minimis safe harbor
election. To elect the de minimis safe harbor
for the tax year, attach a statement to the taxpayer’s timely filed original tax return (including
extensions) for the tax year when qualifying
amounts were paid. The statement must be titled “Section 1.263(a)-1(f) de minimis safe harbor election” and must include your name, address, taxpayer identification number (TIN), and
a statement that you are making the de minimis
safe harbor election under section 1.263(a)-1(f).
In the case of a consolidated group filing a consolidated income tax return, the election is
made for each member of the consolidated
group.
In the case of a consolidated group filing a
consolidated income tax return, the election is
made for each member of the consolidated
group. In the case of an S corporation or a partnership, the election is made by the S corporation or the partnership and not by the shareholders or partners. The election applies only
for the tax year for which it is made.
Example. In 2022, you do not have an applicable financial statement and you purchase
five laptop computers for use in your trade or
business. You paid $2,000 each for a total cost
of $10,000 and these amounts are substantiated in an invoice. You had an accounting procedure in place at the beginning of 2022 to expense the cost of tangible property if the
property costs $2,000 or less. You treat each
computer as an expense on your books and

records for 2022 in accordance with this policy.
If you elect the de minimis safe harbor in your
tax returns for your 2022 tax year, you can deduct the cost of each $2,000 computer.

Improvements
Generally, you must capitalize the costs of making improvements to a business asset if the improvements result in a betterment to the unit of
property, restore the unit of property, or adapt
the unit of property to a new or different use.
Some examples of improvements include
rewiring or replumbing of a building, replacing
an entire roof, increasing the production output
of your equipment, putting an addition on your
building, strengthening the foundation of a
building so you can use it for a new purpose, or
replacing a major component or substantial
structural part of a machine.
However, you may currently deduct the
costs of repairs or maintenance that do not improve a unit of property. This generally includes
the costs of routine repairs and maintenance to
your property that result from your use of the
property and that keep your property in an ordinary, efficient operating condition. For example,
deductible repairs include costs such as painting exteriors or interiors of business buildings,
repairing broken windowpanes, replacing
worn-out minor parts, sealing cracks and leaks,
and changing oil or other fluids to maintain business equipment.
Routine maintenance safe harbor. If you
determine that your cost was for an improvement to a building or equipment, you can deduct your cost under the routine maintenance
safe harbor. Under the routine maintenance
safe harbor, you can deduct the costs of an improvement that meets all of the following criteria.
• It is paid for recurring activities performed
on tangible property.
• It arises from the use of the property in
your trade or business.
• It keeps your property in an ordinary, efficient operating condition.
• You reasonably expect, at the time the
property is placed in service, to perform
this activity:
– For buildings and building systems,
more than once during the 10-year period after you place the building in
service; or
– For other property, more than once
during the class life of the particular
type of property. For class lives, see
Revenue Procedure 88-57, 1987-2
C.B. 674.
Costs incurred during an improvement.
You must capitalize both the direct and indirect
costs of an improvement. Indirect costs include
repairs and other expenses that directly benefit
or are incurred by reason of your improvement.
For example, if you improve the electrical system in your building, you must also capitalize
the costs of repairing the holes that you made in
walls to install the new wiring. This rule applies
even if this work, performed by itself, would oth-

erwise be treated as currently deductible repair
costs.
Election to capitalize repair and maintenance costs. You can elect to capitalize and
depreciate certain amounts paid for repair and
maintenance of tangible property, even if they
do not improve your property. To qualify for this
election, you must treat these amounts as capital expenditures on your books and records
used in figuring your income. If you make this
election, you must apply it to all repair and
maintenance costs of tangible property that you
treat as capital expenditures on your books and
records for this tax year. To make the election
to treat repairs and maintenance as capital expenditures, attach a statement titled “Section
1.263(a)-3(n) Election” to your timely filed original tax return (including extensions) and include
your name and address, TIN, and a statement
that you elect to capitalize repair and maintenance costs under section 1.263(a)-3(n). You
must treat these amounts as improvements to
your tangible property and begin to depreciate
these amounts when the improvement is placed
in service.

Capital Versus Deductible
Expenses
To help you distinguish between capital and deductible expenses, different examples are given
below.
Motor vehicles. You usually capitalize the
cost of a motor vehicle you use in your business. You can recover its cost through annual
deductions for depreciation.
There are dollar limits on the depreciation
you can claim each year on passenger automobiles used in your business. See Pub. 463 for
more information.
Generally, repairs you make to your business vehicle are currently deductible. However,
amounts you pay to improve your business vehicle are generally capital expenditures and are
recovered through depreciation.
Roads and driveways. The cost of building a
private road on your business property and the
cost of replacing a gravel driveway with a concrete one are capital expenses you may be able
to depreciate. The cost of maintaining a private
road on your business property is a deductible
expense.
Tools. Unless the uniform capitalization rules
apply, amounts spent for tools used in your
business are deductible expenses if the tools
have a life expectancy of less than 1 year or
they cost $200 or less per item or invoice.
Machinery parts. Unless the uniform capitalization rules apply, the cost of replacing
short-lived parts of a machine to keep it in good
working condition, but not to improve the machine, is a deductible expense.
Heating equipment. The cost of changing
from one heating system to another is a capital
expense.

Chapter 1

Deduction for qualified business income.
For tax years beginning after 2017, you may be
entitled to take a deduction of up to 20% of your
qualified business income from your qualified
trade or business, plus 20% of the aggregate
amount of qualified real estate investment trust
(REIT) and qualified publicly traded partnership
income. The deduction is subject to various limitations, such as limitations based on the type of
your trade or business, your taxable income,
the amount of W-2 wages paid with respect to
the qualified trade or business, and the unadjusted basis of qualified property held by your
trade or business. You will claim this deduction
on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, not on Schedule C.
Unlike other deductions, this deduction can be
taken in addition to the standard or itemized deductions. For more information, see the Instructions for Form 1040.

Personal Versus Business
Expenses
Generally, you cannot deduct personal, living,
or family expenses. However, if you have an expense for something that is used partly for business and partly for personal purposes, divide
the total cost between the business and personal parts. You can deduct the business part.
For example, if you borrow money and use
70% of it for business and the other 30% for a
family vacation, you can generally deduct 70%
of the interest as a business expense. The remaining 30% is personal interest and is generally not deductible. See chapter 4 for information on deducting interest and the allocation
rules.
Business use of your home. If you use part
of your home for business, you may be able to
deduct expenses for the business use of your
home. These expenses may include mortgage
interest, insurance, utilities, repairs, and depreciation.
To qualify to claim expenses for the business use of your home, you must meet both of
the following tests.
1. The business part of your home must be
used exclusively and regularly for your
trade or business.
2. The business part of your home must be:
a. Your principal place of business;
b. A place where you meet or deal with
patients, clients, or customers in the
normal course of your trade or business; or
c. A separate structure (not attached to
your home) used in connection with
your trade or business.
You generally do not have to meet the exclusive use test for the part of your home that
you regularly use either for the storage of inventory or product samples, or as a daycare facility.
Your home office qualifies as your principal
place of business if you meet the following requirements.
• You use the office exclusively and regularly for administrative or management activities of your trade or business.
Deducting Business Expenses

Page 5

• You have no other fixed location where

you conduct substantial administrative or
management activities of your trade or
business.

If you have more than one business location, determine your principal place of business
based on the following factors.
• The relative importance of the activities
performed at each location.
• If the relative importance factor does not
determine your principal place of business,
consider the time spent at each location.
Optional safe harbor method. Individual
taxpayers can use the optional safe harbor
method to determine the amount of deductible
expenses attributable to certain business use of
a residence during the tax year. This method is
an alternative to the calculation, allocation, and
substantiation of actual expenses.
The deduction under the optional method is
limited to $1,500 per year based on $5 per
square foot for up to 300 square feet. Under this
method, you claim your allowable mortgage interest, real estate taxes, and casualty losses on
the home as itemized deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040). You are not required to allocate these deductions between personal and
business use, as is required under the regular
method. If you use the optional method, you
cannot depreciate the portion of your home
used in a trade or business.
Business expenses unrelated to the home,
such as advertising, supplies, and wages paid
to employees, are still fully deductible. All of the
requirements discussed earlier under Business
use of your home still apply.
For more information on the deduction for
business use of your home, including the optional safe harbor method, see Pub. 587.
If you were entitled to deduct depreciation on the part of your home used for
CAUTION business, you cannot exclude the part
of the gain from the sale of your home that
equals any depreciation you deducted (or could
have deducted) for periods after May 6, 1997.

!

Business use of your car. If you use your car
exclusively in your business, you can deduct
car expenses. If you use your car for both business and personal purposes, you must divide
your expenses based on actual mileage. Generally, commuting expenses between your
home and your business location, within the
area of your tax home, are not deductible.
You can deduct actual car expenses, which
include depreciation (or lease payments), gas
and oil, tires, repairs, tune-ups, insurance, and
registration fees. Or, instead of figuring the
business part of these actual expenses, you
may be able to use the standard mileage rate to
figure your deduction. For 2022, the standard
mileage rate is 58.5 cents per mile before July
1, 2022, and 62.5 cents per mile on or after July
1, 2022. To find the standard mileage rate for
2023,
go
to
IRS.gov/Tax-Professionals/
Standard-Mileage-Rates.
If you are self-employed, you can also deduct the business part of interest on your car
loan, state and local personal property tax on
the car, parking fees, and tolls, whether or not
you claim the standard mileage rate.
Page 6

Chapter 1

For more information on car expenses and
the rules for using the standard mileage rate,
see Pub. 463.

How Much Can I
Deduct?
Generally, you can deduct the full amount of a
business expense if it meets the criteria of ordinary and necessary and it is not a capital expense.
Recovery of amount deducted (tax benefit
rule). If you recover part of an expense in the
same tax year in which you would have claimed
a deduction, reduce your current year expense
by the amount of the recovery. If you have a recovery in a later year, include the recovered
amount in income in that year. However, if part
of the deduction for the expense did not reduce
your tax, you do not have to include that part of
the recovered amount in income.
For more information on recoveries and the
tax benefit rule, see Pub. 525.
Payments in kind. If you provide services to
pay a business expense, the amount you can
deduct is limited to your out-of-pocket costs.
You cannot deduct the cost of your own labor.
Similarly, if you pay a business expense in
goods or other property, you can deduct only
what the property costs you. If these costs are
included in the cost of goods sold, do not deduct them again as a business expense.
Limits on losses. If your deductions for an investment or business activity are more than the
income it brings in, you have a loss. There may
be limits on how much of the loss you can deduct.
Not-for-profit limits. If you carry on your
business activity without the intention of making
a profit, you cannot use a loss from it to offset
other income. For more information, see
Not-for-Profit Activities, later.
At-risk limits. Generally, a deductible loss
from a trade or business or other income-producing activity is limited to the investment you
have “at risk” in the activity. You are at risk in
any activity for the following.
1. The money and adjusted basis of property
you contribute to the activity.
2. Amounts you borrow for use in the activity
if:
a. You are personally liable for repayment, or
b. You pledge property (other than property used in the activity) as security for
the loan.
For more information, see Pub. 925.
Passive activities. Generally, you are in a
passive activity if you have a trade or business
activity in which you do not materially participate, or a rental activity. In general, deductions
for losses from passive activities only offset income from passive activities. You cannot use
any excess deductions to offset other income.

Deducting Business Expenses

In addition, passive activity credits can only offset the tax on net passive income. Any excess
loss or credits are carried over to later years.
Suspended passive losses are fully deductible
in the year you completely dispose of the activity. For more information, see Pub. 925.
Net operating loss (NOL). If your deductions are more than your income for the year,
you may have an NOL. You can use an NOL to
lower your taxes in other years. See Pub. 536
for more information.
See Pub. 542 for information about NOLs of
corporations.

When Can I
Deduct an Expense?
When you can deduct an expense depends on
your accounting method. An accounting
method is a set of rules used to determine when
and how income and expenses are reported.
The two basic methods are the cash method
and the accrual method. Whichever method
you choose must clearly reflect income.
For more information on accounting methods, see Pub. 538.
Cash method. Under the cash method of accounting, you generally deduct business expenses in the tax year you pay them.
Accrual method. Under the accrual method
of accounting, you generally deduct business
expenses when both of the following apply.
1. The all-events test has been met. The test
is met when:
a. All events have occurred that fix the
fact of liability, and
b. The liability can be determined with
reasonable accuracy.
2. Economic performance has occurred.
Economic performance. You generally
cannot deduct or capitalize a business expense
until economic performance occurs. If your expense is for property or services provided to
you, or for your use of property, economic performance occurs as the property or services are
provided, or the property is used. If your expense is for property or services you provide to
others, economic performance occurs as you
provide the property or services.
Example. Your tax year is the calendar
year. In December 2022, the Field Plumbing
Company did some repair work at your place of
business and sent you a bill for $600. You paid
it by check in January 2023. If you use the accrual method of accounting, deduct the $600 on
your tax return for 2022 because all events
have occurred to “fix” the fact of liability (in this
case, the work was completed), the liability can
be determined, and economic performance occurred in that year.
If you use the cash method of accounting,
deduct the expense on your 2023 tax return.
Prepayment. You generally cannot deduct expenses in advance, even if you pay them in advance. This applies to prepaid interest, prepaid

insurance premiums, and any other prepaid expense that creates an intangible asset. If you
pay an amount that creates an intangible asset,
then you must capitalize the amounts paid and
begin to amortize the payment over the appropriate period.
However, you do not have to capitalize
amounts for creating an intangible asset if the
right or benefit created does not extend beyond
the earlier of 12 months after the date that you
first receive the right or benefit or the end of the
tax year following the year in which you made
the advance payment. If you are a cash method
taxpayer and your advance payment qualifies
for this exception, then you can generally deduct the amount when paid. If you are an accrual method taxpayer, you cannot deduct the
amount until the all-events test has been met
and economic performance has occurred.
Example 1. In 2022, you sign a 10-year
lease and immediately pay your rent for the first
3 years. Even though you paid the rent for
2022, 2023, and 2024, you can only deduct the
rent for 2022 on your 2022 tax return. You can
deduct the rent for 2023 and 2024 on your tax
returns for those years.
Example 2. You are a cash method calendar year taxpayer. On December 1, 2022, you
sign a 12-month lease, effective beginning January 1, 2023, and immediately pay your rent for
the entire 12-month period that begins on January 1, 2023. The right or benefit attributable to
the payment neither extends more than 12
months beyond January 1, 2023 (the first day
that you are entitled to use the property) nor beyond the tax year ending December 31, 2023
(the year following the year in which you made
the advance payment). Therefore, your prepayment does not have to be capitalized, and you
can deduct the entire payment in the year you
pay it.
Contested liability. Under the cash method,
you can deduct a contested liability only in the
year you pay the liability. Under the accrual
method, you can deduct contested liabilities
such as taxes (except foreign or U.S. possession income, war profits, and excess profits
taxes) either in the tax year you pay the liability
(or transfer money or other property to satisfy
the obligation) or in the tax year you settle the
contest. However, to take the deduction in the
year of payment or transfer, you must meet certain conditions. See Regulations section
1.461-2.
Related person. Under the accrual method of
accounting, you generally deduct expenses
when you incur them, even if you have not yet
paid them. However, if you and the person you
owe are related and that person uses the cash
method of accounting, you must pay the expense before you can deduct it. Your deduction
is allowed when the amount is includible in income by the related cash method payee. For
more information, see Related Persons in Pub.
538.

Not-for-Profit Activities
If you do not carry on your business or investment activity to make a profit, you cannot use a
loss from the activity to offset other income. Activities you do as a hobby, or mainly for sport or
recreation, are often not entered into for profit.
The limit on not-for-profit losses applies to
individuals, partnerships, estates, trusts, and S
corporations. It does not apply to corporations
other than S corporations.
In determining whether you are carrying on
an activity for profit, several factors are taken
into account. No one factor alone is decisive.
Among the factors to consider are whether:
• You carry on the activity in a businesslike
manner,
• The time and effort you put into the activity
indicate you intend to make it profitable,
• You depend on the income for your livelihood,
• Your losses are due to circumstances beyond your control (or are normal in the
startup phase of your type of business),
• You change your methods of operation in
an attempt to improve profitability,
• You (or your advisors) have the knowledge
needed to carry on the activity as a successful business,
• You were successful in making a profit in
similar activities in the past,
• The activity makes a profit in some years,
and
• You can expect to make a future profit from
the appreciation of the assets used in the
activity.
Presumption of profit. An activity is presumed carried on for profit if it produced a profit
in at least 3 of the last 5 tax years, including the
current year. Activities that consist primarily of
breeding, training, showing, or racing horses
are presumed carried on for profit if they produced a profit in at least 2 of the last 7 tax
years, including the current year. The activity
must be substantially the same for each year
within this period. You have a profit when the
gross income from an activity exceeds the deductions.
If a taxpayer dies before the end of the
5-year (or 7-year) period, the “test” period ends
on the date of the taxpayer's death.
If your business or investment activity
passes this 3- (or 2-) years-of-profit test, the
IRS will presume it is carried on for profit. This
means the limits discussed here will not apply.
You can take all your business deductions from
the activity, even for the years that you have a
loss. You can rely on this presumption unless
the IRS later shows it to be invalid.
Using the presumption later. If you are starting an activity and do not have 3 (or 2) years
showing a profit, you can elect to have the presumption made after you have the 5 (or 7) years
of experience allowed by the test.
You can elect to do this by filing Form 5213.
Filing this form postpones any determination
that your activity is not carried on for profit until
5 (or 7) years have passed since you started
the activity.
Chapter 1

The benefit gained by making this election is
that the IRS will not immediately question
whether your activity is engaged in for profit.
Accordingly, it will not restrict your deductions.
Rather, you will gain time to earn a profit in the
required number of years. If you show 3 (or 2)
years of profit at the end of this period, your deductions are not limited under these rules. If you
do not have 3 (or 2) years of profit, the limit can
be applied retroactively to any year with a loss
in the 5-year (or 7-year) period.
Filing Form 5213 automatically extends the
period of limitations on any year in the 5-year
(or 7-year) period to 2 years after the due date
of the tax return for the last year of the period.
The period is extended only for deductions of
the activity and any related deductions that
might be affected.
You must file Form 5213 within 3 years

TIP after the due date of your tax return

(determined without extensions) for the
year in which you first carried on the activity, or,
if earlier, within 60 days after receiving written
notice from the IRS proposing to disallow deductions attributable to the activity.

Gross Income
Gross income from a not-for-profit activity includes the total of all gains from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property, and all
other gross receipts derived from the activity.
Gross income from the activity also includes
capital gains and rents received for the use of
property that is held in connection with the activity.
You can determine gross income from any
not-for-profit activity by subtracting the cost of
goods sold from your gross receipts. However,
if you determine gross income by subtracting
cost of goods sold from gross receipts, you
must do so consistently, and in a manner that
follows generally accepted methods of accounting.

Limit on Deductions
You can no longer claim any miscellaneous itemized deductions. MiscellaCAUTION neous itemized deductions are those
deductions that would have been subject to the
2%-of-adjusted-gross-income limitation. You
can still claim certain expenses as itemized deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

!

Deductions you can take for personal as
well as for business activities are allowed in full.
For individuals, all nonbusiness deductions,
such as those for home mortgage interest,
taxes, and casualty losses, may also be deducted. Deduct them on the appropriate lines of
Schedule A (Form 1040).
For the limits that apply to home mortgage
interest, see Pub. 936.
Generally, you can deduct a casualty loss
on property you own for personal use only to
the extent each casualty loss is more than
$100, and the total of all casualty losses exceeds 10% of your adjusted gross income
(AGI). See Pub. 547 for more information on
casualty losses.
Deducting Business Expenses

Page 7

Disaster tax relief. For personal casualty
losses resulting from federally declared disasters that occurred before 2018, you may be entitled to disaster tax relief. As a result, you may
be required to figure your casualty loss differently. For tax years beginning after 2017, casualty and theft losses are allowed only to the extent it is attributable to a federally declared
disaster. For more information, see Pub. 976,
Disaster Relief.
Partnerships and S corporations. If a partnership or S corporation carries on a
not-for-profit activity, these limits apply at the
partnership or S corporation level. They are reflected in the individual shareholder's or partner's distributive shares.
More than one activity. If you have several
undertakings, each may be a separate activity
or several undertakings may be combined. The
following are the most significant facts and circumstances in making this determination.
• The degree of organizational and economic interrelationship of various undertakings.
• The business purpose that is (or might be)
served by carrying on the various undertakings separately or together in a business or investment setting.
• The similarity of the undertakings.
The IRS will generally accept your characterization if it is supported by facts and circumstances.
If you are carrying on two or more dif-

TIP ferent activities, keep the deductions

and income from each one separate.
Figure separately whether each is a
not-for-profit activity. Then figure the limit on deductions and losses separately for each activity
that is not for profit.

2.
Employees' Pay
What's New
The COVID-19 related credit for qualified
sick and family leave wages is limited to
leave taken after March 31, 2020, and before October 1, 2021. Generally, the credit
for qualified sick and family leave wages, as
enacted under the Families First Coronavirus
Response Act (FFCRA) and amended and extended by the COVID-related Tax Relief Act of
2020, for leave taken after March 31, 2020, and
before April 1, 2021, and the credit for qualified
sick and family leave wages under sections
3131, 3132, and 3133 of the Internal Revenue
Code, as enacted under the American Rescue
Plan Act of 2021 (the ARP), for leave taken after
March 31, 2021, and before October 1, 2021,
have expired. However, employers that pay
Page 8

Chapter 2

Employees' Pay

qualified sick and family leave wages in 2022
for leave taken after March 31, 2020, and before October 1, 2021, are eligible to claim a
credit for qualified sick and family leave wages
in 2022. For more information about the credit
for qualified sick and family leave wages, go to
IRS.gov/PLC.
The COVID-19 related employee retention
credit has expired. The employee retention
credit enacted under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act and
amended and extended by the Taxpayer Certainty and Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2020 was
limited to qualified wages paid after March 12,
2020, and before July 1, 2021. The employee
retention credit under section 3134 of the Internal Revenue Code, as enacted by the ARP and
amended by the Infrastructure Investment and
Jobs Act, was limited to wages paid after June
30, 2021, and before October 1, 2021, unless
the employer was a recovery startup business.
An employer that was a recovery startup business could also claim the employee retention
credit for wages paid after September 30, 2021,
and before January 1, 2022.
Credit for COBRA premium assistance payments is limited to periods of coverage beginning on or after April 1, 2021, through
periods of coverage beginning on or before
September 30, 2021. Section 9501 of the
ARP provides for COBRA premium assistance
in the form of a full reduction in the premium
otherwise payable by certain individuals and
their families who elect COBRA continuation
coverage due to a loss of coverage as the result
of a reduction in hours or an involuntary termination of employment (assistance eligible individuals). This COBRA premium assistance is
available for periods of coverage beginning on
or after April 1, 2021, through periods of coverage beginning on or before September 30,
2021. A premium payee is entitled to the COBRA premium assistance credit at the time an
eligible individual elects coverage. Therefore,
due to the COBRA notice and election period
requirements (generally, employers have 60
days to provide notice and assistance eligible
individuals have 60 days to elect coverage),
some employers may be eligible to claim the
COBRA premium assistance credit on employment tax returns for the first quarter of 2022.
Advance payment of COVID-19 credits
ended. Although you may pay qualified sick
and family leave wages in 2022 for leave taken
after March 31, 2020, and before October 1,
2021, or provide COBRA premium assistance
payments in 2022, you may no longer request
an advance payment of any credit on Form
7200, Advance Payment of Employer Credits
Due to COVID-19.

Introduction
You can generally deduct the amount you pay
your employees for the services they perform.
The pay may be in cash, property, or services. It
may include wages, salaries, bonuses, commissions, or other noncash compensation such as
vacation allowances and fringe benefits. For information about deducting employment taxes,
see chapter 5.

You may be able to claim employment

TIP credits, such as the credits listed be-

low, if you meet certain requirements.
You must reduce your deduction for employee
wages by the amount of employment credits
that you claim. For more information about
these credits, see the instructions for the form
on which the credit is claimed.

• Work opportunity credit (Form 5884).
• Empowerment zone employment credit
(Form 8844).

• Credit for employer differential wage payments (Form 8932).

• Employer credit for paid family and medical leave (Form 8994).

Topics

This chapter discusses:

• Tests for deducting pay
• Kinds of pay

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
15

15

Employer's Tax Guide

15-A Employer's Supplemental Tax Guide
15-A

15-B Employer's Tax Guide to Fringe
Benefits
15-B

Form (and Instructions)
1099-NEC Nonemployee Compensation
1099-NEC

W-2 Wage and Tax Statement
W-2

See chapter 12 for information about getting
publications and forms.

Tests for Deducting Pay
To be deductible, your employees' pay must be
an ordinary and necessary business expense
and you must pay or incur it. These and other
requirements that apply to all business expenses are explained in chapter 1.
In addition, the pay must meet both of the
following tests.
• Test 1. It must be reasonable.
• Test 2. It must be for services performed.
The form or method of figuring the pay doesn't
affect its deductibility. For example, bonuses
and commissions based on sales or earnings,
and paid under an agreement made before the
services were performed, are both deductible.

Test 1—Reasonableness
You must be able to prove that the pay is reasonable. Whether the pay is reasonable depends on the circumstances that existed when
you contracted for the services, not those that
exist when reasonableness is questioned. If the
pay is excessive, the excess pay is disallowed
as a deduction.
Factors to consider. Determine the reasonableness of pay by the facts and circumstances.

Generally, reasonable pay is the amount that a
similar business would pay for the same or similar services.
To determine if pay is reasonable, also consider the following items and any other pertinent
facts.
• The duties performed by the employee.
• The volume of business handled.
• The character and amount of responsibility.
• The complexities of your business.
• The amount of time required.
• The cost of living in the locality.
• The ability and achievements of the individual employee performing the service.
• The pay compared with the gross and net
income of the business, as well as with distributions to shareholders if the business is
a corporation.
• Your policy regarding pay for all your employees.
• The history of pay for each employee.
Compensation in excess of $1 million. Publicly held corporations can't deduct compensation to a “covered employee” to the extent that
the compensation for the tax year exceeds $1
million. For more information, including the definition of a “covered employee,” see the Instructions for Form 1125-E and Regulations section
1.162-33.

Test 2—For Services
Performed
You must be able to prove the payment was
made for services actually performed.
Employee-shareholder salaries. If a corporation pays an employee who is also a shareholder a salary that is unreasonably high considering the services actually performed, the
excessive part of the salary may be treated as a
constructive dividend to the employee-shareholder. The excessive part of the salary
wouldn't be allowed as a salary deduction by
the corporation. For more information on corporate distributions to shareholders, see Pub. 542.

Kinds of Pay
Some of the ways you may provide pay to your
employees in addition to regular wages or salaries are discussed next. For specialized and detailed information on employees' pay and the
employment tax treatment of employees' pay,
see Pubs. 15, 15-A, and 15-B.

Awards
You can generally deduct amounts you pay to
your employees as awards, whether paid in
cash or property. If you give property to an employee as an employee achievement award,
your deduction may be limited.
Achievement awards. An achievement award
is an item of tangible personal property that
meets all the following requirements.
• It is given to an employee for length of
service or safety achievement.

• It is awarded as part of a meaningful pre-

sentation.
• It is awarded under conditions and circumstances that don't create a significant likelihood of disguised pay.

Tangible personal property. An award
isn't an item of tangible personal property if it is
an award of cash, cash equivalents, gift cards,
gift coupons, or gift certificates (other than arrangements granting only the right to select and
receive tangible personal property from a limited assortment of items preselected or preapproved by you). Also, tangible personal property doesn't include vacations, meals, lodging,
tickets to theater or sporting events, stocks,
bonds, other securities, and other similar items.
Length-of-service award. An award will
qualify as a length-of-service award only if either of the following applies.
• The employee receives the award after
their first 5 years of employment.
• The employee didn't receive another
length-of-service award (other than one of
very small value) during the same year or
in any of the prior 4 years.
Safety achievement award. An award for
safety achievement will qualify as an achievement award unless one of the following applies.
1. It is given to a manager, administrator,
clerical employee, or other professional
employee.
2. During the tax year, more than 10% of
your employees, excluding those listed in
(1), have already received a safety achievement award (other than one of very
small value).
Deduction limit. Your deduction for the
cost of employee achievement awards given to
any one employee during the tax year is limited
to the following.
• $400 for awards that aren't qualified plan
awards.
• $1,600 for all awards, whether or not qualified plan awards.
A qualified plan award is an achievement
award given as part of an established written
plan or program that doesn't favor highly compensated employees as to eligibility or benefits.
A highly compensated employee is an employee who meets either of the following tests.
1. The employee was a 5% owner at any
time during the year or the preceding year.
2. The employee received more than
$130,000 in pay for the preceding year.
You can choose to ignore test (2) if the employee wasn't also in the top 20% of employees
when ranked by pay for the preceding year.
An award isn't a qualified plan award if the
average cost of all the employee achievement
awards given during the tax year (that would be
qualified plan awards except for this limit) is
more than $400. To figure this average cost, ignore awards of nominal value.
Deduct achievement awards, up to the maximum amounts listed earlier, as a nonwage
business expense on your return or business
schedule.

You may not owe employment taxes on

TIP the value of some achievement awards
15-B.

you provide to an employee. See Pub.

Bonuses
You can generally deduct a bonus paid to an
employee if you intended the bonus as additional pay for services, not as a gift, and the
services were performed. However, the total
bonuses, salaries, and other pay must be reasonable for the services performed. If the bonus
is paid in property, see Property, later.
Gifts of nominal value. If, to promote employee goodwill, you distribute merchandise of
nominal value or other de minimis items to your
employees at holidays, you can deduct the cost
of these items as a nonwage business expense. See Pub. 15-B for additional information
on de minimis fringe benefits. If you provide
food to your employees, your business deduction may be limited; see Meals and lodging,
later.

Education Expenses
If you pay or reimburse education expenses for
an employee, you can deduct the payments if
they are part of a qualified educational assistance program. Deduct them on the “Employee
benefit programs” or other appropriate line of
your tax return. For information on educational
assistance programs, see Educational Assistance in section 2 of Pub. 15-B.
Section 2206 of the CARES Act ex-

TIP pands the definition of educational as-

sistance to include certain employer
payments of student loans paid after March 27,
2020. The exclusion applies to the payment by
an employer, whether paid to the employee or
to a lender, of principal or interest on any qualified education loan incurred by the employee
for the education of the employee. Qualified education loans are defined in chapter 10 of Pub.
970. This exclusion expires January 1, 2026,
unless extended by future legislation.

Fringe Benefits
A fringe benefit is a form of pay for the performance of services. You can generally deduct the
cost of fringe benefits.
You may be able to exclude all or part of the
value of some fringe benefits from your employees' pay. You also may not owe employment
taxes on the value of the fringe benefits. See
Table 2-1 in Pub. 15-B for details.
Generally, no deduction is allowed for activities generally considered entertainment,
amusement, or recreation, or for a facility used
in connection with such activity. However, you
may deduct these expenses if the goods, services, or facilities are treated as compensation to
the recipient and reported on Form W-2 for an
employee or on Form 1099-NEC for an independent contractor. If the recipient is an officer,
director, beneficial owner (directly or indirectly),
or other “specified individual” (as defined in
Chapter 2

Employees' Pay

Page 9

section 274(e)(2)(B) and Regulations section
1.274-9(b)), special rules apply. See section
274(e)(2) and Regulations sections 1.274-9 and
1.274-10.
Certain fringe benefits are discussed next.
See Pub. 15-B for more details on these and
other fringe benefits.
Meals and lodging. Generally, you can deduct 50% of certain meal expenses and 100%
of certain lodging expenses provided to your
employees. If the amounts are deductible, deduct the cost in whatever category the expense
falls.
Deduction limit on meals. You can generally deduct only 50% of the cost of furnishing
meals to your employees. However, you can
deduct the full cost of certain meals; see section 274(n)(2) and Regulations section
1.274-12(c) for more information. For example,
you can deduct the full cost of the following
meals.
• Meals whose value you include in an employee's wages.
• Meals you furnish to your employees as
part of the expense of providing recreational or social activities, such as holiday
parties or annual picnics, when made primarily for the benefit of your employees
other than employees who are officers,
shareholders or other owners who own a
10% or greater interest in your business, or
other highly compensated employees.
• Meals you furnish to your employees at the
work site when you operate a restaurant or
catering service.
• Meals you’re required by federal law to furnish to crew members of certain commercial vessels (or would be required to furnish if the vessels were operated at sea).
This doesn't include meals you furnish on
vessels primarily providing luxury water
transportation.
• Meals you furnish on an oil or gas platform
or drilling rig located offshore or in Alaska.
This includes meals you furnish at a support camp that is near and integral to an oil
or gas drilling rig located in Alaska.
P.L. 115-97, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,
changed the rules for the deduction of
CAUTION food or beverage expenses that are excludable from employee income as a de minimis fringe benefit. For amounts incurred or paid
after 2017, the 50% limit on deductions for food
or beverage expenses also applies to food or
beverage expenses excludable from employee
income as a de minimis fringe benefit. While
your business deduction may be limited, the
rules that allow you to exclude certain de minimis meals and meals on your business premises from your employee's wages still apply.
See Meals in section 2 of Pub. 15-B.

!

Food and beverage expense incurred together with entertainment expenses. P.L.
115-97 changed the rules for the deduction of
business entertainment expenses. For amounts
incurred or paid after 2017, no business deduction is allowed for any item generally considered to be entertainment, amusement, or recreation. As discussed earlier, you can deduct
50% of the cost of business meals. If food and
Page 10

Chapter 2

Employees' Pay

beverages are provided during or at an entertainment activity, and the food and beverages
are purchased separately from the entertainment, or the cost of the food and beverages is
stated separately from the cost of the entertainment on one or more bills, invoices, or receipts,
you may continue to deduct 50% of the business meal expenses. The amount charged for
food or beverages on a bill, invoice, or receipt
must reflect the venue's usual selling cost for
those items if they were to be purchased separately from the entertainment or must approximate the reasonable value of those items. If you
purchase food and beverages together with entertainment expenses and the cost of the food
and beverages isn't stated separately on the invoice, the cost of the food and beverages is
also an entertainment expense and none of the
expenses are deductible. For more information,
including details about additional requirements
that must be met for a business meal to be deductible, see Regulations sections 1.274-11
and 1.274-12(a).
Section 210 of the Taxpayer Certainty

TIP and Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2020

provides for the temporary allowance
of a 100% business meal deduction for food or
beverages provided by a restaurant and paid or
incurred after December 31, 2020, and before
January 1, 2023. For more information, see Notice 2021-25, 2021-17 I.R.B. 1118, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2021-17_IRB#NOT-2021-25; and
Notice 2021-63, 2021-49 I.R.B. 835, available
at IRS.gov/irb/2021-49_IRB#NOT-2021-63.
Transportation (commuting) benefits. If
you provide your employees with qualified
transportation benefits, such as transportation
in a commuter highway vehicle, transit passes,
or qualified parking, you may no longer deduct
these amounts. P.L. 115-97 provides that no
deduction is allowed for qualified transportation
benefits (whether provided directly by you,
through a bona fide reimbursement arrangement, or through a compensation reduction
agreement) incurred or paid after 2017. Also,
no deduction is allowed for any expense incurred for providing any transportation, or any payment or reimbursement to your employee, in
connection with travel between your employee's
residence and place of employment, except as
necessary for ensuring the safety of your employee or for qualified bicycle commuting reimbursements as described in section 132(f)(5)
(F). While you may no longer deduct payments
for qualified transportation benefits, the fringe
benefit exclusion rules still apply and the payments, except for qualified bicycle commuting
reimbursements, may be excluded from your
employee's wages. Although the value of a
qualified transportation fringe benefit is relevant
in determining the fringe benefit exclusion and
whether the section 274(e)(2) exception for expenses treated as compensation applies, the
deduction that is disallowed relates to the expense of providing a qualified transportation
fringe, not its value. For more information, see
Regulations sections 1.274-13 and 1.274-14.
See Pub. 15-B for more information about qualified transportation benefits.

Employee benefit programs. Employee benefit programs include the following.
• Accident and health plans.
• Adoption assistance.
• Cafeteria plans.
• Dependent care assistance.
• Education assistance.
• Life insurance coverage.
• Welfare benefit funds.
You can generally deduct amounts you
spend on employee benefit programs on the
applicable line of your tax return. For example,
if you provide dependent care by operating a
dependent care facility for your employees, deduct your costs in whatever categories they fall
(utilities, salaries, etc.).
Life insurance coverage. You can't deduct the cost of life insurance coverage for you,
an employee, or any person with a financial interest in your business if you’re directly or indirectly the beneficiary of the policy. See Regulations section 1.264-1 for more information.
Welfare benefit funds. A welfare benefit
fund is a funded plan (or a funded arrangement
having the effect of a plan) that provides welfare
benefits to your employees, independent contractors, or their beneficiaries. Welfare benefits
are any benefits other than deferred compensation or transfers of restricted property.
Your deduction for contributions to a welfare
benefit fund is limited to the fund's qualified cost
for the tax year. If your contributions to the fund
are more than its qualified cost, carry the excess over to the next tax year.
Generally, the fund's “qualified cost” is the
total of the following amounts, reduced by the
after-tax income of the fund.
• The cost you would’ve been able to deduct
using the cash method of accounting if you
had paid for the benefits directly.
• The contributions added to a reserve account that are needed to fund claims incurred but not paid as of the end of the year.
These claims can be for supplemental unemployment benefits, severance pay, or
disability, medical, or life insurance benefits.
For more information, see sections 419(c)
and 419A and the related regulations.

Loans or Advances
You can generally deduct as wages an advance
you make to an employee for services to be
performed if you don't expect the employee to
repay the advance. However, if the employee
performs no services, treat the amount you advanced as a loan; if the employee doesn't repay
the loan, treat it as income to the employee.
Below-market interest rate loans. On certain loans you make to an employee or shareholder, you’re treated as having received interest income and as having paid compensation or
dividends equal to that interest. See Below-Market Loans in chapter 4.

Property
If you transfer property (including your company's stock) to an employee as payment for services, you can generally deduct it as wages. The
amount you can deduct is the property's fair
market value (FMV) on the date of the transfer
less any amount the employee paid for the
property.
You can claim the deduction only for the tax
year in which your employee includes the property's value in their income. Your employee is
deemed to have included the value in their income if you report it on their Form W-2 in a
timely manner.
You treat the deductible amount as received
in exchange for the property, and you must recognize any gain or loss realized on the transfer,
unless it is the company's stock transferred as
payment for services. Your gain or loss is the
difference between the FMV of the property and
its adjusted basis on the date of transfer.
These rules also apply to property transferred to an independent contractor for services,
generally reported on Form 1099-NEC.
Restricted property. If the property you
transfer for services is subject to restrictions
that affect its value, you generally can't deduct it
and don't report gain or loss until it is substantially vested in the recipient. However, if the recipient pays for the property, you must report
any gain at the time of the transfer up to the
amount paid.
“Substantially vested” means the property
isn't subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture.
This means that the recipient isn't likely to have
to give up their rights in the property in the future.

Reimbursements for
Business Expenses
You can generally deduct the amount you pay
or reimburse employees for business expenses
incurred for your business. However, your deduction may be limited.
If you make the payment under an accountable plan, deduct it in the category of the expense paid. For example, if you pay an employee for travel expenses incurred on your
behalf, deduct this payment as a travel expense. If you make the payment under a nonaccountable plan, deduct it as wages and include
it on the employee's Form W-2.
See Reimbursement of Travel and Non-Entertainment Related Meals in chapter 11 for
more information about deducting reimbursements and an explanation of accountable and
nonaccountable plans.

cation leave. You can deduct vacation pay only
in the tax year in which the employee actually
receives it. This rule applies regardless of
whether you use the cash or accrual method of
accounting.

3.
Rent Expense
Introduction
This chapter discusses the tax treatment of rent
or lease payments you make for property you
use in your business but do not own. It also discusses how to treat other kinds of payments
you make that are related to your use of this
property. These include payments you make for
taxes on the property.

Topics

This chapter discusses:

•
•
•
•
•

The definition of rent
Taxes on leased property
The cost of getting a lease
Improvements by the lessee
Capitalizing rent expenses

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
538 Accounting Periods and Methods
538

544 Sales and Other Dispositions of
Assets

Rent paid in advance. Generally, rent paid for
use of property in your trade or business is deductible in the year paid or incurred. If you are
an accrual method taxpayer and pay rent in advance, you can deduct only the amount of rent
that applies to your use of rented property during the tax year. You can deduct the rest of the
rent payment only over the period to which it
applies. If you are a cash method taxpayer, you
may deduct the entire amount of rent you paid
in advance in the year of payment if the payment applies to the right to use property that
does not extend beyond the earlier of 12
months after the first date you have the right to
use the property or the end of the tax year following the year in which you paid the advance
rent. If your payment applies to the right to use
property beyond this period, then you must capitalize the rent payment and deduct it over the
period to which it applies.
Example 1. You are an accrual method
calendar year taxpayer and you lease a building
at a monthly rental rate of $1,000 beginning
July 1, 2022. On June 30, 2022, you pay advance rent of $12,000 for the last 6 months of
2022 and the first 6 months of 2023. You can
deduct only $6,000 for 2022, for the right to use
property in 2022. You deduct the other $6,000
in 2023.
Example 2. Assume the same facts as Example 1, except you are a cash method calendar year taxpayer. You may deduct the entire
$12,000 payment for 2022. The payment applies to your right to use the property that does
not extend beyond 12 months after the date you
received this right. If you deduct the $12,000 in
2022, you should not deduct any part of this
payment in 2023.

544

946 How To Depreciate Property
946

See chapter 12 for information about getting
publications and forms.

Rent
Rent is any amount you pay for the use of property you do not own. In general, you can deduct
rent as an expense only if the rent is for property you use in your trade or business. If you
have or will receive equity in or title to the property, the rent is not deductible.

Sick pay. You can deduct amounts you pay to
your employees for sickness and injury, including lump-sum amounts, as wages. However,
your deduction is limited to amounts not compensated by insurance or other means.

Unreasonable rent. You can’t take a rental
deduction for unreasonable rent. Ordinarily, the
issue of reasonableness arises only if you and
the lessor are related. Rent paid to a related
person is reasonable if it is the same amount
you would pay to a stranger for use of the same
property. Rent isn’t unreasonable just because
it is figured as a percentage of gross sales. For
examples of related persons, see Related persons in chapter 2 of Pub. 544.

Vacation pay. Vacation pay is an employee
benefit. It includes amounts paid for unused va-

Rent on your home. If you rent your home
and use part of it as your place of business, you

Sick and Vacation Pay

may be able to deduct the rent you pay for that
part. You must meet the requirements for business use of your home. For more information,
see Business use of your home in chapter 1.

Example 3. You are either a cash or accrual calendar year taxpayer. Last January, you
leased property for 3 years for $6,000 per year.
You pay the full $18,000 (3 x $6,000) during the
first year of the lease. Because this amount is a
prepaid expense that must be capitalized, you
can deduct only $6,000 per year, the amount allocable to your use of the property in each year.
Canceling a lease. You can generally deduct
as rent an amount you pay to cancel a business
lease.
Lease or purchase. There may be instances
in which you must determine whether your payments are for rent or for the purchase of the
property. You must first determine whether your
agreement is a lease or a conditional sales contract. Payments made under a conditional sales
contract are not deductible as rent expense.
Conditional sales contract. Whether an
agreement is a conditional sales contract depends on the intent of the parties. Determine intent based on the provisions of the agreement
and the facts and circumstances that exist
when you make the agreement. No single test,
or special combination of tests, always applies.
However, in general, an agreement may be
Chapter 3

Rent Expense

Page 11

considered a conditional sales contract rather
than a lease if any of the following is true.
• The agreement applies part of each payment toward an equity interest you will receive.
• You get title to the property after you make
a stated amount of required payments.
• The amount you must pay to use the property for a short time is a large part of the
amount you would pay to get title to the
property.
• You pay much more than the current fair
rental value of the property.
• You have an option to buy the property at a
nominal price compared to the value of the
property when you may exercise the option. Determine this value when you make
the agreement.
• You have an option to buy the property at a
nominal price compared to the total
amount you have to pay under the agreement.
• The agreement designates part of the payments as interest, or that part is easy to
recognize as interest.
Leveraged leases. Leveraged lease transactions may not be considered leases. Leveraged leases generally involve three parties: a
lessor, a lessee, and a lender to the lessor.
Usually, the lease term covers a large part of
the useful life of the leased property, and the
lessee's payments to the lessor are enough to
cover the lessor's payments to the lender.
If you plan to take part in what appears to be
a leveraged lease, you may want to get an advance ruling.
• Revenue Procedure 2001-28 contains the
guidelines the IRS will use to determine if a
leveraged lease is a lease for federal income tax purposes.
• Revenue Procedure 2001-29 provides the
information required to be furnished in a
request for an advance ruling on a leveraged lease transaction.
These two revenue procedures can be found in
I.R.B. 2001-19, which is available at
IRS.gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb01-19.pdf.
For advance ruling purposes only, the IRS
will consider the lessor in a leveraged lease
transaction to be the owner of the property and
the transaction to be a valid lease if all the factors in the revenue procedure are met, including
the following.
• The lessor must maintain a minimum unconditional “at risk” equity investment in
the property (at least 20% of the cost of the
property) during the entire lease term.
• The lessee may not have a contractual
right to buy the property from the lessor at
less than FMV when the right is exercised.
• The lessee may not invest in the property,
except as provided by Revenue Procedure
2001-28.
• The lessee may not lend any money to the
lessor to buy the property or guarantee the
loan used by the lessor to buy the property.
• The lessor must show that it expects to receive a profit apart from the tax deductions, allowances, credits, and other tax attributes.

Page 12

Chapter 3

Rent Expense

The IRS may charge you a user fee for issuing a tax ruling. For more information, see Revenue Procedure 2022-1, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2022-01_IRB#REV-PROC-2022-1.

The liability and amount of taxes are determined by state or local law and the lease agreement. Economic performance occurs as you
use the property.

Leveraged leases of limited-use property. The IRS won’t issue advance rulings on
leveraged leases of so-called limited-use property. Limited-use property is property not expected to be either useful to or usable by a lessor at the end of the lease term except for
continued leasing or transfer to a lessee. See
Revenue Procedure 2001-28 for examples of
limited-use property and property that isn’t limited-use property.

Example 1. Oak Corporation is a calendar
year taxpayer that uses an accrual method of
accounting. Oak leases land for use in its business. Under state law, owners of real property
become liable (incur a lien on the property) for
real estate taxes for the year on January 1 of
that year. However, they don’t have to pay
these taxes until July 1 of the next year (18
months later) when tax bills are issued. Under
the terms of the lease, Oak becomes liable for
the real estate taxes in the later year when the
tax bills are issued. If the lease ends before the
tax bill for a year is issued, Oak isn’t liable for
the taxes for that year.
Oak cannot deduct the real estate taxes as
rent until the tax bill is issued. This is when
Oak's liability under the lease becomes fixed.

Leases over $250,000. Special rules are provided for certain leases of tangible property.
The rules apply if the lease calls for total payments of more than $250,000 and any of the following apply.
• Rents increase during the lease.
• Rents decrease during the lease.
• Rents are deferred (rent is payable after
the end of the calendar year following the
calendar year in which the use occurs and
the rent is allocated).
• Rents are prepaid (rent is payable before
the end of the calendar year preceding the
calendar year in which the use occurs and
the rent is allocated).
These rules do not apply if your lease specifies
equal amounts of rent for each month in the
lease term and all rent payments are due in the
calendar year to which the rent relates (or in the
preceding or following calendar year).
Generally, if the special rules apply, you
must use an accrual method of accounting (and
time value of money principles) for your rental
expenses, regardless of your overall method of
accounting. In addition, in certain cases in
which the IRS has determined that a lease was
designed to achieve tax avoidance, you must
take rent and stated or imputed interest into account under a constant rental accrual method in
which the rent is treated as accruing ratably
over the entire lease term. For details, see section 467.

Taxes on
Leased Property
If you lease business property, you can deduct
as additional rent any taxes you have to pay to
or for the lessor. When you can deduct these
taxes as additional rent depends on your accounting method.
Cash method. If you use the cash method of
accounting, you can deduct the taxes as additional rent only for the tax year in which you pay
them.
Accrual method. If you use an accrual
method of accounting, you can deduct the
taxes as additional rent for the tax year in which
you can determine all the following.
• That you have a liability for taxes on the
leased property.
• How much the liability is.
• That economic performance occurred.

Example 2. The facts are the same as in
Example 1, except that, according to the terms
of the lease, Oak becomes liable for the real estate taxes when the owner of the property becomes liable for them. As a result, Oak will deduct the real estate taxes as rent on its tax
return for the earlier year. This is the year in
which Oak's liability under the lease becomes
fixed.

Cost of Getting a Lease
You may either enter into a new lease with the
lessor of the property or get an existing lease
from another lessee. Very often when you get
an existing lease from another lessee, you must
pay the previous lessee money to get the lease,
besides having to pay the rent on the lease.
If you get an existing lease on property or
equipment for your business, you must generally amortize any amount you pay to get that
lease over the remaining term of the lease. For
example, if you pay $10,000 to get a lease and
there are 10 years remaining on the lease with
no option to renew, you can deduct $1,000
each year.
The cost of getting an existing lease of tangible property is not subject to the amortization
rules for section 197 intangibles discussed in
chapter 8.
Option to renew. The term of the lease for
amortization includes all renewal options plus
any other period for which you and the lessor
reasonably expect the lease to be renewed.
However, this applies only if less than 75% of
the cost of getting the lease is for the term remaining on the purchase date (not including
any period for which you may choose to renew,
extend, or continue the lease). Allocate the
lease cost to the original term and any option
term based on the facts and circumstances. In
some cases, it may be appropriate to make the
allocation using a present value calculation. For
more information, see Regulations section
1.178-1(b)(5).

Example 1. You paid $10,000 to get a
lease with 20 years remaining on it and two options to renew for 5 years each. Of this cost,
you paid $7,000 for the original lease and
$3,000 for the renewal options. Because
$7,000 is less than 75% of the total $10,000
cost of the lease (or $7,500), you must amortize
the $10,000 over 30 years. That is the remaining life of your present lease plus the periods for
renewal.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in
Example 1, except that you paid $8,000 for the
original lease and $2,000 for the renewal options. You can amortize the entire $10,000 over
the 20-year remaining life of the original lease.
The $8,000 cost of getting the original lease
was not less than 75% of the total cost of the
lease (or $7,500).
Cost of a modification agreement. You may
have to pay an additional “rent” amount over
part of the lease period to change certain provisions in your lease. You must capitalize these
payments and amortize them over the remaining period of the lease. You can’t deduct the
payments as additional rent, even if they are
described as rent in the agreement.
Example. You are a calendar year taxpayer and sign a 20-year lease to rent part of a
building starting on January 1. However, before
you occupy it, you decide that you really need
less space. The lessor agrees to reduce your
rent from $7,000 to $6,000 per year and to release the excess space from the original lease.
In exchange, you agree to pay an additional
rent amount of $3,000, payable in 60 monthly
installments of $50 each.
You must capitalize the $3,000 and amortize
it over the 20-year term of the lease. Your amortization deduction each year will be $150
($3,000 ÷ 20). You can’t deduct the $600 (12 ×
$50) that you will pay during each of the first 5
years as rent.
Commissions, bonuses, and fees. Commissions, bonuses, fees, and other amounts you
pay to get a lease on property you use in your
business are capital costs. You must amortize
these costs over the term of the lease.
Loss on merchandise and fixtures. If you
sell at a loss merchandise and fixtures that you
bought solely to get a lease, the loss is a cost of
getting the lease. You must capitalize the loss
and amortize it over the remaining term of the
lease.

Improvements
by Lessee
If you add buildings or make other permanent
improvements to leased property, depreciate
the cost of the improvements using the modified
accelerated cost recovery system (MACRS).
Depreciate the property over its appropriate recovery period. You can’t amortize the cost over
the remaining term of the lease.
If you don’t keep the improvements when
you end the lease, figure your gain or loss

based on your adjusted basis in the improvements at that time.
For more information, see the discussion of
MACRS in chapter 4 of Pub. 946.
Assignment of a lease. If a long-term lessee
who makes permanent improvements to land
later assigns all lease rights to you for money
and you pay the rent required by the lease, the
amount you pay for the assignment is a capital
investment. If the rental value of the leased land
increased since the lease began, part of your
capital investment is for that increase in the
rental value. The rest is for your investment in
the permanent improvements.
The part that is for the increased rental value
of the land is a cost of getting a lease, and you
amortize it over the remaining term of the lease.
You can depreciate the part that is for your investment in the improvements over the recovery period of the property as discussed earlier,
without regard to the lease term.

Capitalizing
Rent Expenses
Under the uniform capitalization rules, you must
capitalize the direct costs and part of the indirect costs for certain production or resale activities. Include these costs in the basis of property
you produce or acquire for resale, rather than
claiming them as a current deduction. You recover the costs through depreciation, amortization, or cost of goods sold when you use, sell,
or otherwise dispose of the property.
Indirect costs include amounts incurred for
renting or leasing equipment, facilities, or land.
Uniform capitalization rules. You may be
subject to the uniform capitalization rules if you
do any of the following, unless the property is
produced for your use other than in a business
or an activity carried on for profit.
1. Produce real property or tangible personal
property.

Example 2. You rent space in a facility to
conduct your business of manufacturing tools. If
you are subject to the uniform capitalization
rules, you must include the rent you paid to occupy the facility in the cost of the tools you produce.
More information. For exceptions and more
information on these rules, see Uniform Capitalization Rules in Pub. 538 and the regulations
under section 263A.

4.
Interest
Introduction
This chapter discusses the tax treatment of
business interest expense. Business interest
expense is an amount charged for the use of
money you borrowed for business activities.

Topics

This chapter discusses:

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Allocation of interest
Interest expense limitation
Interest you can deduct
Interest you cannot deduct
Capitalization of interest
When to deduct interest
Below-market loans

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
537 Installment Sales
537

2. Acquire property for resale. However, this
rule does not apply to personal property if
your average annual gross receipts are
$27 million or less.
Effective for tax years beginning after 2017,
if you are a small business taxpayer (see Cost
of Goods Sold in chapter 1), you are not required to capitalize costs under section 263A.
See section 263A(i).
Producing property. You produce property if you construct, build, install, manufacture,
develop, improve, create, raise, or grow the
property. Property produced for you under a
contract is treated as produced by you to the
extent you make payments or otherwise incur
costs in connection with the property.
Example 1. You rent construction equipment to build a storage facility. If you are subject to the uniform capitalization rules, you must
capitalize as part of the cost of the building the
rent you paid for the equipment. You recover
your cost by claiming a deduction for
depreciation on the building.

550 Investment Income and Expenses
550

936 Home Mortgage Interest Deduction
936

Form (and Instructions)
Schedule A (Form 1040) Itemized
Deductions
Schedule A (Form 1040)

Schedule E (Form 1040) Supplemental
Income and Loss
Schedule E (Form 1040)

Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) Partner's
Share of Income,
Deductions, Credits, etc.
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065)

Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S)
Shareholder's Share of Income,
Deductions, Credits, etc.
Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S)

1098 Mortgage Interest Statement
1098

3115 Application for Change in
Accounting Method
3115

4952 Investment Interest Expense
Deduction
4952

8582 Passive Activity Loss Limitations
8582

Chapter 4

Interest

Page 13

8990 Limitation on Business Interest
Expense Under Section 163(j)
8990

See chapter 12 for information about getting
publications and forms.

Allocation of Interest
The rules for deducting interest vary, depending
on whether the loan proceeds are used for business, personal, or investment activities. If you
use the proceeds of a loan for more than one
type of expense, you must allocate the interest
based on the use of the loan's proceeds.
Allocate your interest expense to the following categories.
• Nonpassive trade or business activity interest.
• Passive trade or business activity interest.
• Investment interest.
• Portfolio interest.
• Personal interest.
In general, you allocate interest on a loan the
same way you allocate the loan proceeds. You
allocate loan proceeds by tracing disbursements to specific uses.
The easiest way to trace disburse-

TIP ments to specific uses is to keep the

proceeds of a particular loan separate
from any other funds.
Secured loan. The allocation of loan proceeds
and the related interest is generally not affected
by the use of property that secures the loan.

Example. Celina, a calendar-year taxpayer,
borrows $100,000 on January 4 and immediately uses the proceeds to open a checking account. No other amounts are deposited in the
account during the year and no part of the loan
principal is repaid during the year. On April 2,
Celina uses $20,000 from the checking account
for a passive activity expenditure. On September 4, Celina uses an additional $40,000 from
the account for personal purposes.
Under the interest allocation rules, the entire
$100,000 loan is treated as property held for investment for the period from January 4 through
April 1. From April 2 through September 3, Celina must treat $20,000 of the loan as used in the
passive activity and $80,000 of the loan as
property held for investment. From September
4 through December 31, she must treat
$40,000 of the loan as used for personal purposes, $20,000 as used in the passive activity,
and $40,000 as property held for investment.
Order of funds spent. Generally, you treat
loan proceeds deposited in an account as used
(spent) before either of the following amounts.
• Any unborrowed amounts held in the same
account.
• Any amounts deposited after these loan
proceeds.
Example. On January 9, Olena opened a
checking account, depositing $500 of the proceeds of Loan A and $1,000 of unborrowed
funds. The following table shows the transactions in her account during the tax year.
Date

Example. Marge and Jeff secure a loan
with property used in their business. They use
the loan proceeds to buy an automobile for personal use. Jeff and Marge must allocate interest
expense on the loan to personal use (purchase
of the automobile) even though the loan is secured by business property.

January 9

Transaction
$500 proceeds of Loan A and
$1,000 unborrowed funds
deposited

January 14

$500 proceeds of Loan B
deposited

February 19

$800 used for personal purposes

February 27

$700 used for passive activity

P.L. 115-97, section 11043, limited the
deduction for mortgage interest paid on
CAUTION home equity loans and line of credit.
For more information, see Pub. 936.

June 19

$1,000 proceeds of Loan C
deposited

November 20

$800 used for an investment

December 18

$600 used for personal purposes

Allocation period. The period for which a loan
is allocated to a particular use begins on the
date the proceeds are used and ends on the
earlier of the following dates.
• The date the loan is repaid.
• The date the loan is reallocated to another
use.

Olena treats the $800 used for personal purposes as made from the $500 proceeds of Loan
A and $300 of the proceeds of Loan B. She
treats the $700 used for a passive activity as
made from the remaining $200 proceeds of
Loan B and $500 of unborrowed funds. She
treats the $800 used for an investment as made
entirely from the proceeds of Loan C. She treats
the $600 used for personal purposes as made
from the remaining $200 proceeds of Loan C
and $400 of unborrowed funds.
For the periods during which loan proceeds
are held in the account, Olena treats them as
property held for investment.

!

Proceeds not disbursed to borrower. Even
if the lender disburses the loan proceeds to a
third party, the allocation of the loan is still
based on your use of the funds. This applies
whether you pay for property, services, or anything else by incurring a loan, or you take property subject to a debt.
Proceeds deposited in borrower's account.
Treat loan proceeds deposited in an account as
property held for investment. It does not matter
whether the account pays interest. Any interest
you pay on the loan is investment interest expense. If you withdraw the proceeds of the loan,
you must reallocate the loan based on the use
of the funds.
Page 14

Chapter 4

Interest

Payments from checking accounts.
Generally, you treat a payment from a checking
or similar account as made at the time the
check is written if you mail or deliver it to the
payee within a reasonable period after you write
it. You can treat checks written on the same day
as written in any order.

Amounts paid within 30 days. If you receive loan proceeds in cash or if the loan proceeds are deposited in an account, you can
treat any payment (up to the amount of the proceeds) made from any account you own, or
from cash, as made from those proceeds. This
applies to any payment made within 30 days
before or after the proceeds are received in
cash or deposited in your account.
If the loan proceeds are deposited in an account, you can apply this rule even if the rules
stated earlier under Order of funds spent would
otherwise require you to treat the proceeds as
used for other purposes. If you apply this rule to
any payments, disregard those payments (and
the proceeds from which they are made) when
applying the rules stated earlier under Order of
funds spent.
If you received the loan proceeds in cash,
you can treat the payment as made on the date
you received the cash instead of the date you
actually made the payment.
Example. Giovanni gets a loan of $1,000
on August 4 and receives the proceeds in cash.
Giovanni deposits $1,500 in an account on August 8 and on August 18 writes a check on the
account for a passive activity expense. Also,
Giovanni deposits his paycheck, deposits other
loan proceeds, and pays his bills during the
same period. Regardless of these other transactions, Giovanni can treat $1,000 of the deposit he made on August 8 as being paid on August 4 from the loan proceeds. In addition,
Giovanni can treat the passive activity expense
he paid on August 18 as made from the $1,000
loan proceeds treated as deposited in the account.
Optional method for determining date of
reallocation. You can use the following
method to determine the date loan proceeds
are reallocated to another use. You can treat all
payments from loan proceeds in the account
during any month as taking place on the later of
the following dates.
• The first day of that month.
• The date the loan proceeds are deposited
in the account.
However, you can use this optional method only
if you treat all payments from the account during the same calendar month in the same way.
Interest on a segregated account. If you
have an account that contains only loan proceeds and interest earned on the account, you
can treat any payment from that account as being made first from the interest. When the interest earned is used up, any remaining payments
are from loan proceeds.
Example. You borrowed $20,000 and used
the proceeds of this loan to open a new savings
account. When the account had earned interest
of $867, you withdrew $20,000 for personal purposes. You can treat the withdrawal as coming
first from the interest earned on the account,
$867, and then from the loan proceeds,
$19,133 ($20,000 − $867). All the interest
charged on the loan from the time it was deposited in the account until the time of the withdrawal is investment interest expense. The interest charged on the part of the proceeds used
for personal purposes ($19,133) from the time

you withdrew it until you either repay it or reallocate it to another use is personal interest expense. The interest charged on the loan proceeds you left in the account ($867) continues
to be investment interest expense until you either repay it or reallocate it to another use.
Loan repayment. When you repay any part of
a loan allocated to more than one use, treat it as
being repaid in the following order.
1. Personal use.
2. Investments and passive activities (other
than those included in (3)).
3. Passive activities in connection with a
rental real estate activity in which you actively participate.
4. Former passive activities.
5. Trade or business use and expenses for
certain low-income housing projects.
Line of credit (continuous borrowings). The
following rules apply if you have a line of credit
or similar arrangement.
1. Treat all borrowed funds on which interest
accrues at the same fixed or variable rate
as a single loan.
2. Treat borrowed funds or parts of borrowed
funds on which interest accrues at different fixed or variable rates as different
loans. Treat these loans as repaid in the
order shown on the loan agreement.
Loan refinancing. Allocate the replacement
loan to the same uses to which the repaid loan
was allocated. Make this allocation only to the
extent you use the proceeds of the new loan to
repay any part of the original loan.
Debt-financed distribution. A debt-financed
distribution occurs when a partnership or S corporation borrows funds and allocates those
funds to distributions made to partners or
shareholders. The manner in which you report
the interest expense associated with the distributed debt proceeds depends on your use of
those proceeds.
How to report. If the proceeds were used
in a nonpassive trade or business activity, report the interest on Schedule E (Form 1040),
line 28; enter “interest expense” and the name
of the partnership or S corporation in column (a)
and the amount in column (i). If the proceeds
were used in a passive activity, follow the Instructions for Form 8582 to determine the
amount of interest expense that can be reported on Schedule E (Form 1040), line 28; enter
“interest expense” and the name of the partnership in column (a) and the amount in column
(g). If the proceeds were used in an investment
activity, enter the interest on Form 4952. If the
proceeds are used for personal purposes, the
interest is generally not deductible.

Interest Expense
Limitation
You must generally limit business interest expense you pay or accrue during the tax year,
unless an exception to the limitation is met.
The business interest expense deduction allowed for a tax year is generally limited to the
sum of:
1. Business interest income,
2. 30% of the adjustable taxable income, and
3. Floor plan financing interest.
If the section 163(j) limitation applies, generally the amount of any business interest expense that is not allowed as a deduction under
section 163(j) for the tax year is carried forward
to the following year as a disallowed business
interest expense carryforward. See the Instructions for Form 8990, Limitation on Business Interest Expense Under Section 163(j), for more
information.

Interest You Can Deduct
Your trade or business interest expense may be
limited. See the Instructions for Form 8990 for
more information. Interest relates to your trade
or business if you use the proceeds of the loan
for a trade or business expense. It does not
matter what type of property secures the loan.
You can deduct interest on a debt only if you
meet all the following requirements.
• You are legally liable for that debt.
• Both you and the lender intend that the
debt be repaid.
• You and the lender have a true debtor–
creditor relationship.
Partial liability. If you are liable for part of a
business debt, only your share of the total interest paid or accrued is included in your interest
limitation calculation.
Example. You and your sibling borrow
money. You are liable for 50% of the note. You
use your half of the loan in your business, and
you make one-half of the loan payments. Your
business interest is half of the total interest payments. However, the current year interest expense deduction may be limited.
Mortgage. Generally, mortgage interest paid
or accrued on real estate you own legally or
equitably is deductible. However, rather than
deducting the interest currently, you may have
to add it to the cost basis of the property as explained later under Capitalization of Interest.
Statement. If you paid $600 or more of
mortgage interest (including certain points) during the year on any one mortgage, you will generally receive a Form 1098 or a similar statement. You will receive the statement if you pay
interest to a person (including a financial institution or a cooperative housing corporation) in the
course of that person's trade or business. A
governmental unit is a person for purposes of
furnishing the statement.

If you receive a refund of interest you overpaid in an earlier year, this amount will be reported in box 4 of Form 1098. You cannot deduct
this amount. For information on how to report
this refund, see Refunds of interest, later, in this
chapter.
Expenses paid to obtain a mortgage.
Certain expenses you pay to obtain a mortgage
cannot be deducted as interest. These expenses, which include mortgage commissions, abstract fees, and recording fees, are capital expenses. If the property mortgaged is business
or income-producing property, you can amortize the costs over the life of the mortgage.
Prepayment penalty. If you pay off your
mortgage early and pay the lender a penalty for
doing this, you can deduct the penalty as interest.
Interest on employment tax deficiency. Interest charged on employment taxes assessed
on your business is deductible.
Original issue discount (OID). OID is a form
of interest. A loan (mortgage or other debt) generally has OID when its proceeds are less than
its principal amount. The OID is the difference
between the stated redemption price at maturity
and the issue price of the loan.
A loan's stated redemption price at maturity
is the sum of all amounts (principal and interest)
payable on it other than qualified stated interest. Qualified stated interest is stated interest
that is unconditionally payable in cash or property (other than another loan of the issuer) at
least annually over the term of the loan at a single fixed rate.
You generally deduct OID over the term of
the loan. Figure the amount to deduct each year
using the constant-yield method, unless the
OID on the loan is de minimis.
De minimis OID. The OID is de minimis if it
is less than one-fourth of 1% (0.0025) of the
stated redemption price of the loan at maturity
multiplied by the number of full years from the
date of original issue to maturity (the term of the
loan).
If the OID is de minimis, you can choose one
of the following ways to figure the amount you
can deduct each year.
• On a constant-yield basis over the term of
the loan.
• On a straight-line basis over the term of the
loan.
• In proportion to stated interest payments.
• In its entirety at maturity of the loan.
You make this choice by deducting the OID in a
manner consistent with the method chosen on
your timely filed tax return for the tax year in
which the loan is issued.
Example. On January 1, 2022, you took out
a $100,000 discounted loan and received
$98,500 in proceeds. The loan will mature on
January 1, 2032 (a 10-year term), and the
$100,000 principal is payable on that date. Interest of $10,000 is payable on January 1 of
each year, beginning January 1, 2023. The
$1,500 OID on the loan is de minimis because it
is less than $2,500 ($100,000 × 0.0025 × 10).
You choose to deduct the OID on a straight-line
Chapter 4

Interest

Page 15

basis over the term of the loan. Beginning in
2022, you can deduct $150 each year for 10
years.
Constant-yield method. If the OID is not
de minimis, you must use the constant-yield
method to figure how much you can deduct
each year. You figure your deduction for the first
year using the following steps.
1. Determine the issue price of the loan.
Generally, this equals the proceeds of the
loan. If you paid points on the loan (as discussed later), the issue price is generally
the difference between the proceeds and
the points.
2. Multiply the result in (1) by the yield to maturity.
3. Subtract any qualified stated interest payments from the result in (2). This is the
OID you can deduct in the first year.
To figure your deduction in any subsequent
year, follow the steps above, except determine
the adjusted issue price in step 1. To get the
adjusted issue price, add to the issue price any
OID previously deducted. Then follow steps 2
and 3 above.
The yield to maturity is generally shown in
the literature you receive from your lender. If
you do not have this information, consult your
lender or tax advisor. In general, the yield to
maturity is the discount rate that, when used in
figuring the present value of all principal and interest payments, produces an amount equal to
the principal amount of the loan.
Example. The facts are the same as in the
previous example, except that you deduct the
OID on a constant-yield basis over the term of
the loan. The yield to maturity on your loan is
10.2467%, compounded annually. For 2022,
you can deduct $93 [($98,500 × 0.102467) −
$10,000]. For 2023, you can deduct $103
[($98,593 × 0.102467) − $10,000].
Loan or mortgage ends. If your loan or
mortgage ends, you may be able to deduct any
remaining OID in the tax year in which the loan
or mortgage ends. A loan or mortgage may end
due to a refinancing, prepayment, foreclosure,
or similar event.
If you refinance with the original lender,
you generally cannot deduct the reCAUTION maining OID in the year in which the refinancing occurs, but you may be able to deduct
it over the term of the new mortgage or loan.
See Interest paid with funds borrowed from
original lender under Interest You Cannot Deduct, later.

!

Points. The term “points” is used to describe
certain charges paid, or treated as paid, by a
borrower to obtain a loan or a mortgage. These
charges are also called loan origination fees,
maximum loan charges, discount points, or premium charges. If any of these charges (points)
are solely for the use of money, they are interest.
Because points are prepaid interest, you
generally cannot deduct the full amount in the
year paid. However, you can choose to fully deduct points in the year paid if you meet certain
Page 16

Chapter 4

Interest

tests. For exceptions to the general rule, see
Pub. 936.
The points reduce the issue price of the loan
and result in OID, deductible as explained in the
preceding discussion.
Partial payments on a nontax debt. If you
make partial payments on a debt (other than a
debt owed to the IRS), the payments are applied, in general, first to interest and any remainder to principal. You can deduct only the
interest. This rule does not apply when it can be
inferred that the borrower and lender understood that a different allocation of the payments
would be made.
Installment purchase. If you make an installment purchase of business property, the contract between you and the seller generally provides for the payment of interest. If no interest
or a low rate of interest is charged under the
contract, a portion of the stated principal
amount payable under the contract may be recharacterized as interest (unstated interest).
The amount recharacterized as interest reduces
your basis in the property and increases your
interest expense. For more information on installment sales and unstated interest, see Pub.
537.

Interest You Cannot
Deduct
Certain interest payments cannot be deducted.
In addition, certain other expenses that may
seem to be interest, but are not, cannot be deducted as interest.
You cannot currently deduct interest that
must be capitalized, and you generally cannot
deduct personal interest.
Interest paid with funds borrowed from
original lender. If you use the cash method of
accounting, you cannot deduct interest you pay
with funds borrowed from the original lender
through a second loan, an advance, or any
other arrangement similar to a loan. You can
deduct the interest expense once you start
making payments on the new loan.
When you make a payment on the new loan,
you first apply the payment to interest and then
to the principal. All amounts you apply to the interest on the first loan are deductible, along with
any interest you pay on the second loan, subject to any limits that apply.
Capitalized interest. You cannot currently deduct interest you are required to capitalize under the uniform capitalization rules. See Capitalization of Interest, later. In addition, if you buy
property and pay interest owed by the seller (for
example, by assuming the debt and any interest
accrued on the property), you cannot deduct
the interest. Add this interest to the basis of the
property.
Commitment fees or standby charges. Fees
you incur to have business funds available on a
standby basis, but not for the actual use of the
funds, are not deductible as interest payments.
You may be able to deduct them as business
expenses.

If the funds are for inventory or certain property used in your business, the fees are indirect
costs and you must generally capitalize them
under the uniform capitalization rules. See Capitalization of Interest, later.
Interest on income tax. Interest charged on
income tax assessed on your individual income
tax return is not a business deduction even
though the tax due is related to income from
your trade or business. Treat this interest as a
business deduction only in figuring a net operating loss deduction.
Penalties. Penalties on underpaid deficiencies and underpaid estimated tax are not interest. You cannot deduct them. Generally, you
cannot deduct any fines or penalties.
Interest on loans with respect to life insurance policies. You generally cannot deduct
interest on a debt incurred with respect to any
life insurance, annuity, or endowment contract
that covers any individual unless that individual
is a key person.
If the policy or contract covers a key person,
you can deduct the interest on up to $50,000 of
debt for that person. However, the deduction for
any month cannot be more than the interest figured using Moody's Composite Yield on Seasoned Corporate Bonds (formerly known as
Moody's Corporate Bond Yield Average—Monthly Average Corporates) (Moody's
rate) for that month.
Who is a key person? A “key person” is
an officer or 20% owner. However, the number
of individuals you can treat as key persons is
limited to the greater of the following.
• Five individuals.
• The lesser of 5% of the total officers and
employees of the company or 20 individuals.
Exceptions for pre-June 1997 contracts.
You can generally deduct the interest if the contract was issued before June 9, 1997, and the
covered individual is someone other than an
employee, officer, or someone financially interested in your business. If the contract was purchased before June 21, 1986, you can generally deduct the interest no matter who is
covered by the contract.
Interest allocated to unborrowed policy
cash value. Corporations and partnerships
generally cannot deduct any interest expense
allocable to unborrowed cash values of life insurance, annuity, or endowment contracts. This
rule applies to contracts issued after June 8,
1997, that cover someone other than an officer,
director, employee, or 20% owner. For more information, see section 264(f).

Capitalization of Interest
Under the uniform capitalization rules, you must
generally capitalize interest on debt equal to
your expenditures to produce real property or
certain tangible personal property. The property
must be produced by you for use in your trade
or business or for sale to customers. You cannot capitalize interest related to property that
you acquire in any other manner.

Interest you paid or incurred during the production period must be capitalized if the property produced is designated property. Designated property is any of the following.
• Real property.
• Tangible personal property with a class life
of 20 years or more.
• Tangible personal property with an estimated production period of more than 2
years.
• Tangible personal property with an estimated production period of more than 1 year if
the estimated cost of production is more
than $1 million.
Property you produce. You produce property
if you construct, build, install, manufacture, develop, improve, create, raise, or grow it. Treat
property produced for you under a contract as
produced by you up to the amount you pay or
incur for the property.
Carrying charges. Carrying charges include
taxes you pay to carry or develop real estate or
to carry, transport, or install personal property.
You can choose to capitalize carrying charges
not subject to the uniform capitalization rules if
they are otherwise deductible. For more information, see chapter 7.
Capitalized interest. Treat capitalized interest
as a cost of the property produced. You recover
your interest when you sell or use the property.
If the property is inventory, recover capitalized
interest through cost of goods sold. If the property is used in your trade or business, recover
capitalized interest through an adjustment to
basis, depreciation, amortization, or other
method.
Partnerships and S corporations. The interest capitalization rules are applied first at the
partnership or S corporation level. The rules are
then applied at the partners' or shareholders'
level to the extent the partnership or S corporation has insufficient debt to support the production or construction costs.
If you are a partner or a shareholder, you
may have to capitalize interest you incur during
the tax year for the production costs of the partnership or S corporation. You may also have to
capitalize interest incurred by the partnership or
S corporation for your own production costs. To
properly capitalize interest under these rules,
you must be given the required information in
an attachment to the Schedule K-1 you receive
from the partnership or S corporation.
Additional information. The procedures for
applying the uniform capitalization rules are beyond the scope of this publication. For more information, see Regulations sections 1.263A-8
through 1.263A-15 and Notice 88-99, which is
in Cumulative Bulletin 1988-2.

When To Deduct Interest
If the uniform capitalization rules, discussed under Capitalization of Interest, earlier, and the
business interest expense deduction limitation
rules discussed under Interest Expense Limitation, earlier, do not apply, deduct interest as follows.

Cash method. Under the cash method, you
can generally deduct only the interest you actually paid during the tax year. You cannot deduct a promissory note you gave as payment
because it is a promise to pay and not an actual
payment.
Prepaid interest. You generally cannot deduct any interest paid before the year it is due.
Interest paid in advance can be deducted only
in the tax year in which it is due.
Discounted loan. If interest or a discount
is subtracted from your loan proceeds, it is not a
payment of interest and you cannot deduct it
when you get the loan. For more information,
see Original issue discount (OID) under Interest
You Can Deduct, earlier.
Refunds of interest. If you pay interest
and then receive a refund in the same tax year
of any part of the interest, reduce your interest
deduction by the refund. If you receive the refund in a later tax year, include the refund in
your income to the extent the deduction for the
interest reduced your tax.
Accrual method. Under an accrual method,
you can deduct only interest that has accrued
during the tax year.
Prepaid interest. You generally cannot deduct any interest paid before the year it is due.
Interest paid in advance can be deducted only
in the tax year in which it is due.
Discounted loan. If interest or a discount
is subtracted from your loan proceeds, it is not a
payment of interest and you cannot deduct it
when you get the loan. For more information,
see Original issue discount (OID) under Interest
You Can Deduct, earlier.
Tax deficiency. If you contest a federal income tax deficiency, interest does not accrue
until the tax year the final determination of liability is made. If you do not contest the deficiency,
then the interest accrues in the year the tax was
asserted and agreed to by you.
However, if you contest but pay the proposed tax deficiency and interest, and you do
not designate the payment as a cash bond,
then the interest is deductible in the year paid.
Related person. If you use an accrual
method, you cannot deduct interest owed to a
related person who uses the cash method until
payment is made and the interest is includible in
the gross income of that person. The relationship is determined as of the end of the tax year
for which the interest would otherwise be deductible. See section 267 for more information.

Below-Market Loans
If you receive a below-market gift or demand
loan and use the proceeds in your trade or business, you may be able to deduct the forgone interest. See Treatment of gift and demand loans,
later, in this discussion.
A “below-market loan” is a loan on which no
interest is charged or on which interest is
charged at a rate below the applicable federal
rate (AFR). A gift or demand loan that is a below-market loan is generally considered an

arm's-length transaction in which you, the borrower, are considered as having received both
of the following.
• A loan in exchange for a note that requires
the payment of interest at the AFR.
• An additional payment in an amount equal
to the forgone interest.
The additional payment is treated as a gift, dividend, contribution to capital, payment of compensation, or other payment, depending on the
substance of the transaction.
Forgone interest. For any period, forgone interest is:
1. The interest that would be payable for that
period if interest accrued on the loan at the
AFR and was payable annually on December 31, minus
2. Any interest actually payable on the loan
for the period.
AFRs are published by the IRS each

TIP month in the Internal Revenue Bulletin

(I.R.B.), which is available on the IRS
website at IRS.gov/IRB. You can also contact
an IRS office to get these rates.
Loans subject to the rules. The rules for below-market loans apply to the following.
1. Gift loans (below-market loans where the
forgone interest is in the nature of a gift).
2. Compensation-related loans (below-market loans between an employer and an
employee or between an independent
contractor and a person for whom the contractor provides services).
3. Corporation-shareholder loans.
4. Tax avoidance loans (below-market loans
where the avoidance of federal tax is one
of the main purposes of the interest arrangement).
5. Loans to qualified continuing care facilities
under a continuing care contract (made after October 11, 1985).
Except as noted in (5) above, these rules
apply to demand loans (loans payable in full at
any time upon the lender's demand) outstanding after June 6, 1984, and to term loans (loans
that are not demand loans) made after that
date.
Treatment of gift and demand loans. If you
receive a below-market gift loan or demand
loan, you are treated as receiving an additional
payment (as a gift, dividend, etc.) equal to the
forgone interest on the loan. You are then treated as transferring this amount back to the
lender as interest. These transfers are considered to occur annually, generally on December
31. If you use the loan proceeds in your trade or
business, you can deduct the forgone interest
each year as a business interest expense. The
lender must report it as interest income.
Limit on forgone interest for gift loans of
$100,000 or less. For gift loans between individuals, forgone interest treated as transferred
back to the lender is limited to the borrower's
net investment income for the year. This limit
applies if the outstanding loans between the
Chapter 4

Interest

Page 17

lender and borrower total $100,000 or less. If
the borrower's net investment income is $1,000
or less, it is treated as zero. This limit does not
apply to a loan if the avoidance of any federal
tax is one of the main purposes of the interest
arrangement.
Treatment of term loans. If you receive a below-market term loan other than a gift or demand loan, you are treated as receiving an additional cash payment (as a dividend, etc.) on
the date the loan is made. This payment is
equal to the loan amount minus the present
value, at the AFR, of all payments due under
the loan. The same amount is treated as OID on
the loan. See Original issue discount (OID) under Interest You Can Deduct, earlier.
Exceptions for loans of $10,000 or less.
The rules for below-market loans do not apply
to any day on which the total outstanding loans
between the borrower and lender is $10,000 or
less. This exception applies only to the following.
1. Gift loans between individuals if the loan is
not directly used to buy or carry income-producing assets.
2. Compensation-related loans or corporation-shareholder loans if the avoidance of
any federal tax is not a principal purpose
of the interest arrangement.
This exception does not apply to a term loan
described in (2) above that was previously subject to the below-market loan rules. Those rules
will continue to apply even if the outstanding
balance is reduced to $10,000 or less.
Exceptions for loans without significant tax
effect. The following loans are specifically exempted from the rules for below-market loans
because their interest arrangements do not
have a significant effect on the federal tax liability of the borrower or the lender.
1. Loans made available by lenders to the
general public on the same terms and
conditions that are consistent with the
lender's customary business practices.

b. The amount of the items.
c. The cost of complying with the below-market loan provisions if they
were to apply.

5.

d. Any reasons, other than taxes, for
structuring the transaction as a below-market loan.

Taxes

Exception for loans to qualified continuing
care facilities. The below-market interest
rules do not apply to a loan owed by a qualified
continuing care facility under a continuing care
contract if the lender or lender's spouse is age
62 or older by the end of the calendar year.
A qualified continuing care facility is one or
more facilities (excluding nursing homes) meeting the requirements listed below.
1. Designed to provide services under continuing care contracts (defined below).
2. Includes an independent living unit, and
either an assisted living or nursing facility,
or both.
3. Substantially all of the independent living
unit residents are covered by continuing
care contracts.
A “continuing care contract” is a written contract between an individual and a qualified continuing care facility that includes all of the following conditions.
1. The individual or individual's spouse must
be entitled to use the facility for the rest of
their life or lives.
2. The individual or individual's spouse will
be provided with housing, as appropriate
for the health of the individual or individual's spouse in an:
a. Independent living unit (which has additional available facilities outside the
unit for the provision of meals and
other personal care), and
b. Assisted living or nursing facility available in the continuing care facility.

2. Loans subsidized by a federal, state, or
municipal government that are made available under a program of general application to the public.

3. The individual or individual's spouse will
be provided with assisted living or nursing
care available in the continuing care facility, as required for the health of the individual or the individual's spouse.

3. Certain employee-relocation loans.

For more information, see section 7872(h).

4. Certain loans to or from a foreign person,
unless the interest income would be effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S.
trade or business and not exempt from
U.S. tax under an income tax treaty.
5. Any other loan if the taxpayer can show
that the interest arrangement has no significant effect on the federal tax liability of
the lender or the borrower. Whether an interest arrangement has a significant effect
on the federal tax liability of the lender or
the borrower will be determined by all the
facts and circumstances. Consider all the
following factors.
a. Whether items of income and deduction generated by the loan offset each
other.
Page 18

Chapter 5

Taxes

Sale or exchange of property. Different rules
generally apply to a loan connected with the
sale or exchange of property. If the loan does
not provide adequate stated interest, part of the
principal payment may be considered interest.
However, there are exceptions that may require
you to apply the below-market interest rate
rules to these loans. See Unstated Interest and
Original Issue Discount (OID) in Pub. 537.
More information. For more information on
below-market loans, see section 7872 and Regulations section 1.7872-5.

Introduction
You can deduct various federal, state, local,
and foreign taxes directly attributable to your
trade or business as business expenses.

!

CAUTION

taxes.

You cannot deduct federal income
taxes, estate and gift taxes, or state inheritance, legacy, and succession

Topics

This chapter discusses:

•
•
•
•
•

When to deduct taxes
Real estate taxes
Income taxes
Employment taxes
Other taxes

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
15

15

(Circular E), Employer's Tax Guide

334 Tax Guide for Small Business
334

510 Excise Taxes
510

538 Accounting Periods and Methods
538

551 Basis of Assets
551

Form (and Instructions)
1040 or 1040-SR U.S. Individual Income
Tax Return
1040 or 1040-SR

Schedule A (Form 1040) Itemized
Deductions
Schedule A (Form 1040)

Schedule SE (Form 1040)
Self-Employment Tax

Schedule SE (Form 1040)

3115 Application for Change in
Accounting Method
3115

8959 Additional Medicare Tax
8959

See chapter 12 for information about getting
publications and forms.

When To Deduct Taxes
Generally, you can only deduct taxes in the
year you pay them. This applies whether you
use the cash method or an accrual method of
accounting.
Under an accrual method, you can deduct a
tax before you pay it if you meet the exception
for recurring items discussed under Economic
Performance in Pub. 538. You can also elect to
ratably accrue real estate taxes as discussed
later under Real Estate Taxes. See also Foreign
income taxes, discussed later.

Limitation on acceleration of accrual of
taxes. A taxing jurisdiction can require the use
of a date for accruing taxes that is earlier than
the date it originally required. However, if you
use an accrual method, and can deduct the tax
before you pay it, use the original accrual date
for the year of change and all future years to determine when you can deduct the tax.
Example. Your state imposes a tax on personal property used in a trade or business conducted in the state. This tax is assessed and
becomes a lien as of July 1 (accrual date). In
2022, the state changed the assessment and
lien dates from July 1, 2023, to December 31,
2022, for property tax year 2023. Use the original accrual date (July 1, 2023) to determine
when you can deduct the tax. You must also
use the July 1 accrual date for all future years to
determine when you can deduct the tax.
Uniform capitalization rules. Uniform capitalization rules apply to certain taxpayers who produce real property or tangible personal property
for use in a trade or business or for sale to customers. They also apply to certain taxpayers
who acquire property for resale. Under these
rules, you either include certain costs in inventory or capitalize certain expenses related to the
property, such as taxes. For more information,
see chapter 1.
Carrying charges. Carrying charges include
taxes you pay to carry or develop real estate or
to carry, transport, or install personal property.
You can elect to capitalize carrying charges not
subject to the uniform capitalization rules if they
are otherwise deductible. For more information,
see chapter 7.
Refunds of taxes. If you receive a refund for
any taxes you deducted in an earlier year, include the refund in income to the extent the deduction reduced your federal income tax in the
earlier year. For more information, see Recovery of amount deducted (tax benefit rule) in
chapter 1.

TIP

You must include in income any interest you receive on tax refunds.

Real Estate Taxes
Deductible real estate taxes are any state or local taxes, including taxes imposed by U.S. possessions, on real estate levied for the general
public welfare. The taxing authority must base
the taxes on the assessed value of the real estate and charge them uniformly against all property under its jurisdiction. Deductible real estate
taxes generally do not include taxes charged for
local benefits and improvements that increase
the value of the property. See Taxes for local
benefits, later.
Real estate taxes imposed by a foreign
country are not deductible unless paid or accrued in connection with the conduct of a trade
or business or for the production of income. For
individual tax filers, the amount of deductible
state and local real estate taxes may be subject
to a $10,000 limitation. See State and local income taxes, later.

If you use an accrual method, you generally
cannot accrue real estate taxes until you pay
them to the government authority. However,
you can elect to ratably accrue the taxes during
the year. See Electing to ratably accrue, later.
Taxes for local benefits. Generally, you cannot deduct taxes charged for local benefits and
improvements that tend to increase the value of
your property. These include assessments for
streets, sidewalks, water mains, sewer lines,
and public parking facilities. You should increase the basis of your property by the amount
of the assessment.
You can deduct taxes for these local benefits only if the taxes are for maintenance, repairs, or interest charges related to those benefits. If part of the tax is for maintenance, repairs,
or interest, you must be able to show how much
of the tax is for these expenses to claim a deduction for that part of the tax.
Example. To improve downtown commercial business, Waterfront City converted a
downtown business area street into an enclosed pedestrian mall. The city assessed the
full cost of construction, financed with 10-year
bonds, against the affected properties. The city
is paying the principal and interest with the annual payments made by the property owners.
The assessments for construction costs are
not deductible as taxes or as business expenses, but are depreciable capital expenses. The
part of the payments used to pay the interest
charges on the bonds is deductible as taxes.
Charges for services. Water bills, sewerage,
and other service charges assessed against
your business property are not real estate
taxes, but are deductible as business expenses.
Purchase or sale of real estate. If real estate
is sold, the real estate taxes must be allocated
between the buyer and the seller.
The buyer and seller must allocate the real
estate taxes according to the number of days in
the real property tax year (the period to which
the tax imposed relates) that each owned the
property. Treat the seller as paying the taxes up
to but not including the date of sale. Treat the
buyer as paying the taxes beginning with the
date of sale. You can usually find this information on the settlement statement you received at
closing.
If you (the seller) use an accrual method and
have not elected to ratably accrue real estate
taxes, you are considered to have accrued your
part of the tax on the date you sell the property.
Example. Lynn and Curt are calendar year
accrual method taxpayers who own real estate
in Olmo County. They have not elected to ratably accrue property taxes. November 30 of
each year is the assessment and lien date for
the current real property tax year, which is the
calendar year. They sold the property on June
30, 2022. Under their accounting method, they
would not be able to claim a deduction for the
taxes because the sale occurred before November 30. They are treated as having accrued
their part of the tax, 181/365 (January 1–June
29), on June 30, and they can deduct it for
2022.

Electing to ratably accrue. If you use an accrual method, you can elect to accrue real estate tax related to a definite period ratably over
that period.
Example. Lea and Joey are calendar year
taxpayers who use an accrual method. Their
real estate taxes for the real property tax year,
July 1, 2022, to June 30, 2023, are $1,200. July
1 is the assessment and lien date.
If the Lea and Joey elect to ratably accrue
the taxes, $600 will accrue in 2022 ($1,200 ×
6/12, July 1–December 31) and the balance will
accrue in 2023.
Separate elections. You can elect to ratably accrue the taxes for each separate trade or
business and for nonbusiness activities if you
account for them separately. Once you elect to
ratably accrue real estate taxes, you must use
that method unless you get permission from the
IRS to change your accounting method. See
Form 3115, later.
Making the election. If you elect to ratably
accrue the taxes for the first year in which you
incur real estate taxes, attach a statement to
your income tax return for that year. The statement should show all the following items.
• The trades or businesses to which the
election applies and the accounting
method or methods used.
• The period to which the taxes relate.
• The calculation of the real estate tax deduction for that first year.
Generally, you must file your return by the
due date (including extensions). However, if
you timely filed your return for the year without
electing to ratably accrue, you can still make the
election by filing an amended return within 6
months after the due date of the return (excluding extensions). Attach the statement to the
amended return and write “Filed pursuant to
section 301.9100-2” on the statement. File the
amended return at the same address where you
filed the original return.
Form 3115. If you elect to ratably accrue
real estate taxes for a year after the first year in
which you incur real estate taxes, or if you want
to revoke your election to ratably accrue real
estate taxes, file Form 3115. For more information, including applicable time frames for filing,
see the Instructions for Form 3115.

Income Taxes
This section discusses federal, state, local, and
foreign income taxes.
Federal income taxes. You cannot deduct
federal income taxes.
State and local income taxes. A corporation
or partnership can deduct state and local income taxes imposed on the corporation or partnership as business expenses.
An individual can deduct state and local income taxes only as an itemized deduction on
Schedule A (Form 1040), subject to limitations.
The deduction is limited to $10,000 as a total of
the following taxes.

Chapter 5

Taxes

Page 19

1. State and local income taxes or general
sales taxes. See the Schedule A (Form
1040) instructions.
2. State and local real estate taxes. See the
Schedule A (Form 1040) instructions. See
also Real Estate Taxes, earlier.
3. State and local personal property taxes.
However, an individual can deduct a state
tax on gross income (as distinguished from net
income) directly attributable to a trade or business as a business expense.
Accrual of contested income taxes. If
you use an accrual method, and you contest a
state or local income tax liability, you must accrue and deduct any contested amount in the
tax year in which the liability is finally determined.
If additional state or local income taxes for a
prior year are assessed in a later year, you can
deduct the taxes in the year in which they were
originally imposed (the prior year) if the tax liability is not contested. You cannot deduct them
in the year in which the liability is finally determined.
The filing of an income tax return is not
TIP considered a contest and, in the absence of an overt act of protest, you
can deduct the tax in the prior year. Also, you
can deduct any additional taxes in the prior year
if you do not show some affirmative evidence of
denial of the liability.
However, if you consistently deduct additional assessments in the year they are paid or
finally determined (including those for which
there was no contest), you must continue to do
so. You cannot take a deduction in the earlier
year unless you receive permission to change
your method of accounting. For more information on accounting methods, see When Can I
Deduct an Expense in chapter 1.
If you contest a state or local tax liability, and
you transfer money or other property as a provisional payment of the contested tax liability, you
can accrue and deduct the amount of the contested tax liability for which you made the provisional payment in the year in which you made
the payment, even though the liability is not determined until a later year.
If any portion of the contested amount which
was deducted in the year the provisional payment was made is later refunded when the contest is settled, you must include such portion in
your gross income in the year the refund is received.
Notwithstanding the exception that allows
accrual and deduction of contested state or local income tax liability upon payment, current
accrual and deduction is not allowed for income, war profits, and excess profits taxes imposed by a foreign country or possession of the
United States.
Foreign income taxes. Generally, you can
take either a deduction or a credit for income
taxes imposed on you by a foreign country or a
U.S. possession, subject to limitations. However, an individual cannot take a deduction or
credit for foreign income taxes paid on income
that is exempt from U.S. tax under the foreign
earned income exclusion or the foreign housing
exclusion. For information on these exclusions,
Page 20

Chapter 5

Taxes

see Pub. 54. For information on the foreign tax
credit, see Pub. 514.
Accrual of foreign income taxes. If you
use an accrual method and choose to take a
deduction (rather than a credit) for foreign income taxes, you can deduct the taxes in the
year in which the fact of the liability becomes
fixed and the amount of the liability can be determined with reasonable accuracy. Generally,
this is the year with or within which the tax year
that applies for foreign tax purposes ends or, in
the case of a contested tax, the year in which
the contest is resolved. Different rules may apply to determine when a foreign income tax is
considered to accrue for purposes of the foreign tax credit. For more information on the foreign tax credit, see Pub. 514.

Employment Taxes
If you have employees, you must withhold various taxes from your employees' pay. Most employers must withhold their employees' share of
social security, Medicare taxes, and Additional
Medicare Tax (if applicable), along with state
and federal income taxes. You may also need
to pay certain employment taxes from your own
funds. These include your share of social security and Medicare taxes as an employer, along
with unemployment taxes.
Your deduction for wages paid is not reduced by the social security and Medicare
taxes, Additional Medicare Tax, and income
taxes you withhold from your employees. You
can deduct the employment taxes you must pay
from your own funds as taxes.
Example. You pay your employee $18,000
a year. However, after you withhold various
taxes, your employee receives $14,500. You
also pay an additional $1,500 in employment
taxes. You should deduct the full $18,000 as
wages. You can deduct the $1,500 you pay
from your own funds as taxes.
Additional Medicare Tax. You must withhold
a 0.9% Additional Medicare Tax from wages
you pay to an employee in excess of $200,000
in a calendar year. The Additional Medicare Tax
is only imposed on the employee. There is no
employer share of Additional Medicare Tax.
For more information on the Additional Medicare Tax, see Form 8959 and its instructions.
For more information on employment

TIP taxes, see Pub. 15 (Circular E).

Unemployment fund taxes. As an employer,
you may have to make payments to a state unemployment compensation fund or to a state
disability benefit fund. Deduct these payments
as taxes.
Self-employment tax. You can deduct part of
your self-employment tax as a business expense in figuring your adjusted gross income.
This deduction only affects your income tax. It
does not affect your net earnings from self-employment or your self-employment tax.
To deduct the tax, enter on Schedule 1
(Form 1040), line 15, the amount shown on the

Deduction for one-half of self-employment tax
line of Schedule SE (Form 1040).
For more information on self-employment
tax, see Pub. 334.
Additional Medicare Tax. You may be required to pay Additional Medicare Tax on
self-employment income. See Form 8959 and
the Instructions for Form 8959 for more information on the Additional Medicare Tax.

Other Taxes
The following are other taxes you can deduct if
you incur them in the ordinary course of your
trade or business.
Excise taxes. Generally, you can deduct as a
business expense all excise taxes that are ordinary and necessary expenses of carrying on
your trade or business. However, see Fuel
taxes, later.
For more information on excise taxes, see
Pub. 510.
Franchise taxes. You can deduct corporate
franchise taxes as a business expense.
Fuel taxes. Generally, taxes on gasoline, diesel fuel, and other motor fuels that you use in
your business are included as part of the cost of
the fuel. Do not deduct these taxes as a separate item.
You may be entitled to a credit or refund for
federal excise tax you paid on fuels used for
certain purposes. For more information, see
Pub. 510.
Occupational taxes. You can deduct as a
business expense an occupational tax charged
at a flat rate by a locality for the privilege of
working or conducting a business in the locality.
Personal property tax. You can deduct any
tax imposed by a state or local government on
personal property used in your trade or business.
Sales tax. Any sales tax you pay on a service
for your business, or on the purchase or use of
property in your business is treated as part of
the cost of the service or property. If the service
or the cost or use of the property is a deductible
business expense, you can deduct the tax as
part of that service or cost. If the property is
merchandise bought for resale, the sales tax is
part of the cost of the merchandise. If the property is depreciable, add the sales tax to the basis for depreciation. For more information on
basis, see Pub. 551.
Do not deduct state and local sales
taxes imposed on the buyer that you
CAUTION must collect and pay over to the state
or local government. Also, do not include these
taxes in gross receipts or sales.

!

2555 Foreign Earned Income
2555

6.

W-2 Wage and Tax Statement
W-2

See chapter 12 for information about getting
publications and forms.

Insurance

Deductible Premiums

Reminder
Premium tax credit. You may have to use the
worksheets in Pub. 974 instead of the worksheet in this chapter. Use the worksheets in
Pub. 974 if the insurance plan established, or
considered to be established, under your business was obtained through the Health Insurance Marketplace and you are claiming the premium tax credit. See Pub. 974 for details.

Introduction
You can generally deduct the ordinary and necessary cost of insurance as a business expense
if it is for your trade, business, or profession.
However, you may have to capitalize certain insurance costs under the uniform capitalization
rules. For more information, see Capitalized
Premiums, later.

Topics

This chapter discusses:

•
•
•
•

You can generally deduct premiums you pay for
the following kinds of insurance related to your
trade or business.
1. Insurance that covers fire, storm, theft, accident, or similar losses.
2. Credit insurance that covers losses from
business bad debts.
3. Group hospitalization and medical insurance for employees, including long-term
care insurance.
a. If a partnership pays accident and
health insurance premiums for its
partners, it can generally deduct them
as guaranteed payments to partners.
b. If an S corporation pays accident and
health insurance premiums for its
more-than-2% shareholder-employees, it can generally deduct them, but
must also include them in the shareholder's wages subject to federal income tax withholding. See Pub.15-B.
4. Liability insurance.
5. Malpractice insurance that covers your
personal liability for professional negligence resulting in injury or damage to patients or clients.

Deductible premiums
Nondeductible premiums
Capitalized premiums
When to deduct premiums

6. Workers' compensation insurance set by
state law that covers any claims for bodily
injuries or job-related diseases suffered by
employees in your business, regardless of
fault.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
15-B Employer's Tax Guide to Fringe
Benefits
15-B

525 Taxable and Nontaxable Income
525

538 Accounting Periods and Methods
538

547 Casualties, Disasters, and Thefts
547

Form (and Instructions)
1040 U.S. Individual Income Tax Return
1040

1040-NR U.S. Nonresident Alien Income
Tax Return
1040-NR

Schedule 1 (Form 1040) Additional
Income and Adjustments to Income

a. If a partnership pays workers' compensation premiums for its partners, it
can generally deduct them as guaranteed payments to partners.
b. If an S corporation pays workers'
compensation premiums for its
more-than-2% shareholder-employees, it can generally deduct them, but
must also include them in the shareholder's wages.
7. Contributions to a state unemployment insurance fund are deductible as taxes if
they are considered taxes under state law.

Schedule 1 (Form 1040)

Schedule A (Form 1040) Itemized
Deductions
Schedule A (Form 1040)

Schedule C (Form 1040) Profit or Loss
From Business
Schedule C (Form 1040)

Schedule F (Form 1040) Profit or Loss
From Farming
Schedule F (Form 1040)

Schedule SE (Form 1040)
Self-Employment Tax

Schedule SE (Form 1040)

Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) Partner's
Share of Income, Deductions,
Credits, etc.
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065)

8. Overhead insurance that pays for business overhead expenses you have during
long periods of disability caused by your
injury or sickness.
9. Car and other vehicle insurance that covers vehicles used in your business for liability, damages, and other losses. If you
operate a vehicle partly for personal use
and partly for business use, deduct only
the part of the insurance premium that applies to the business use of the vehicle. If
you use the standard mileage rate to figure your car expenses, you can’t deduct
any car insurance premiums.

10. Life insurance covering your officers and
employees if you aren’t directly or indirectly a beneficiary under the contract.
11. Business interruption insurance that pays
for lost profits if your business is shut
down due to a fire or other cause.

Self-Employed Health
Insurance Deduction
You may be able to deduct the amount you paid
for medical and dental insurance and qualified
long-term care insurance for yourself, your
spouse, and your dependents. The health insurance can cover your child who was under age
27 at the end of 2022, even if the child wasn’t
your dependent. A child includes your son,
daughter, stepchild, adopted child, or foster
child. A foster child is any child placed with you
by an authorized placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other order of any court of
competent jurisdiction.
One of the following statements must be
true.
• You were self-employed and had a net
profit for the year reported on Schedule C
(Form 1040) or Schedule F (Form 1040).
• You were a partner with net earnings from
self-employment for the year reported on
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), box 14,
code A.
• You used one of the optional methods to
figure your net earnings from self-employment on Schedule SE.
• You received wages in 2022 from an S corporation in which you were a
more-than-2% shareholder. Health insurance premiums paid or reimbursed by the
S corporation are shown as wages on
Form W-2.
The insurance plan must be established, or
considered to be established, as discussed in
the following bullets, under your business.
• For self-employed individuals filing a
Schedule C (Form 1040) or Schedule F
(Form 1040), a policy can be either in the
name of the business or in the name of the
individual.
• For partners, a policy can be either in the
name of the partnership or in the name of
the partner. You can either pay the premiums yourself or the partnership can pay
them and report the premium amounts on
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) as guaranteed
payments to be included in your gross income. However, if the policy is in your
name and you pay the premiums yourself,
the partnership must reimburse you and
report the premium amounts on Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) as guaranteed payments to be included in your gross income.
Otherwise, the insurance plan won’t be
considered to be established under your
business.
• For more-than-2% shareholders, a policy
can be either in the name of the S corporation or in the name of the shareholder. You
can either pay the premiums yourself or
the S corporation can pay them and report
the premium amounts on Form W-2 as wages to be included in your gross income.
However, if the policy is in your name and
Chapter 6

Insurance

Page 21

you pay the premiums yourself, the S corporation must reimburse you and report
the premium amounts in box 1 of Form
W-2 as wages to be included in your gross
income. Otherwise, the insurance plan
won’t be considered to be established under your business.
Medicare premiums you voluntarily pay to
obtain insurance in your name that is similar to
qualifying private health insurance can be used
to figure the deduction. Amounts paid for health
insurance coverage from retirement plan distributions that were nontaxable because you are a
retired public safety officer can’t be used to figure the deduction.
You can claim the deduction for self-employed health insurance on Schedule 1 (Form
1040), line 17.
Qualified long-term care insurance. You
can include premiums paid on a qualified
long-term care insurance contract when figuring
your deduction. But, for each person covered,

Page 22

Chapter 6

Insurance

you can include only the smaller of the following
amounts.
1. The amount of premiums paid for that person.
2. The amount shown below. Use the person's age at the end of the tax year.
a. Age 40 or younger — $450
b. Age 41 to 50 — $850
c. Age 51 to 60 — $1,690
d. Age 61 to 70 — $4,510
e. Age 71 or older — $5,640
Qualified long-term care insurance contract. A qualified long-term care insurance
contract is an insurance contract that only provides coverage of qualified long-term care services. The contract must meet all the following
requirements.
• It must be guaranteed renewable.
• It must provide that refunds, other than refunds on the death of the insured or complete surrender or cancellation of the contract, and dividends under the contract

may be used only to reduce future premiums or increase future benefits.
• It must not provide for a cash surrender
value or other money that can be paid, assigned, pledged, or borrowed.
• It must generally not pay or reimburse expenses incurred for services or items that
would be reimbursed under Medicare, except where Medicare is a secondary payer
or the contract makes per diem or other
periodic payments without regard to expenses.
Qualified long-term care services. Qualified long-term care services are:
• Necessary diagnostic, preventive, therapeutic, curing, treating, mitigating, and rehabilitative services; and
• Maintenance or personal care services.
The services must be required by a chronically
ill individual and prescribed by a licensed health
care practitioner.

Worksheet 6-A. Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction Worksheet

Keep for Your Records

Caution. You may have to use the worksheets in Pub. 974 instead of this worksheet if the insurance plan established, or
considered to be established, under your business was obtained through the Health Insurance Marketplace and you are
claiming the premium tax credit. See Pub. 974 for details.
Note. Use a separate worksheet for each trade or business under which an insurance plan is established.
1. Enter the total amount paid in 2022 for health insurance coverage established under your
business (or the S corporation in which you were a more-than-2% shareholder) for 2022 for you,
your spouse, and your dependents. Your insurance can also cover your child who was under age
27 at the end of 2022, even if the child was not your dependent. But don’t include the following.
• Amounts for any month you were eligible to participate in a health plan subsidized by your
employer or your spouse’s employer or the employer of either your dependent or your child
who was under the age of 27 at the end of 2022.
• Any amounts paid from retirement plan distributions that were nontaxable because you are a
retired public safety officer.
• Any payments for qualified long-term care insurance (see line 2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. For coverage under a qualified long-term care insurance contract, enter for each person covered
the smaller of (a) or (b).
a) Total payments made for that person during the year.
b) The amount shown below. Use the person's age at the end of the tax year.
$450— if that person is age 40 or younger
$850— if age 41 to 50
$1,690— if age 51 to 60
$4,510— if age 61 to 70
$5,640— if age 71 or older
Note. The amount of long-term care premiums that can be included as a medical expense is
limited by the person’s age. Don’t include payments for any month you were eligible to
participate in a long-term care insurance plan subsidized by your employer or your spouse’s
employer or the employer of either your dependent or your child who was under the age of
27 at the end of 2022. If more than one person is covered, figure separately the amount to
enter for each person. Then enter the total of those amounts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Add lines 1 and 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Enter your net profit* and any other earned income** from the trade or business under which the
insurance plan is established. Don’t include Conservation Reserve Program payments exempt
from self-employment tax. If the business is an S corporation, skip to line 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. Enter the total of all net profits* from Schedule C (Form 1040), line 31; Schedule F (Form 1040),
line 34; or Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), box 14, code A, plus any other income allocable to the
profitable businesses. Don’t include Conservation Reserve Program payments exempt from
self-employment tax. See the Instructions for Schedule SE (Form 1040). Don’t include any net
losses shown on these schedules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6. Divide line 4 by line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7. Multiply Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15, deductible part of self-employment tax, by the
percentage on line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8. Subtract line 7 from line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9. Enter the amount, if any, from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 16, self-employed SEP, SIMPLE,
and qualified plans, attributable to the same trade or business in which the insurance plan is
established . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10. Subtract line 9 from line 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11. Enter your Medicare wages (box 5 of Form W-2) from an S corporation in which you are a
more-than-2% shareholder and in which the insurance plan is established . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12. Enter any amount from Form 2555, line 45, attributable to the amount entered on line 4 or 11
above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13. Subtract line 12 from line 10 or 11, whichever applies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
14. Self-employed health insurance deduction. Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 13 here and on
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 17. Don’t include this amount when figuring any medical expense
deduction on Schedule A (Form 1040) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2.
3.
4.

5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.

* If you used either optional method to figure your net earnings from self-employment from any business, don’t enter your net profit from the
business. Instead, enter the amount attributable to that business from Schedule SE (Form 1040), Part I, line 4b.
** Earned income includes net earnings and gains from the sale, transfer, or licensing of property you created. However, it doesn’t include capital
gain income.
Chronically ill individual. A chronically ill
individual is a person who has been certified as
one of the following.
• An individual who has been unable, due to
loss of functional capacity for at least 90
days, to perform at least two activities of
daily living without substantial assistance
from another individual. Activities of daily
living are eating, toileting, transferring

(general mobility), bathing, dressing, and
continence.
• An individual who requires substantial supervision to be protected from threats to
health and safety due to severe cognitive
impairment.
The certification must have been made by a licensed health care practitioner within the previous 12 months.

Benefits received. For information on excluding benefits you receive from a long-term
care contract from gross income, see Pub. 525.
Other coverage. You can’t take the deduction
for any month you were eligible to participate in
any employer (including your spouse's) subsidized health plan at any time during that month,
even if you didn’t actually participate. In addition, if you were eligible for any month or part of
Chapter 6

Insurance

Page 23

a month to participate in any subsidized health
plan maintained by the employer of either your
dependent or your child who was under age 27
at the end of 2022, don’t use amounts paid for
coverage for that month to figure the deduction.
These rules are applied separately to plans
that provide long-term care insurance and plans
that don’t provide long-term care insurance.
However, any medical insurance payments not
deductible on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 17,
can be included as medical expenses on
Schedule A (Form 1040) if you itemize deductions.
Effect on itemized deductions. Subtract the
health insurance deduction from your medical
insurance when figuring medical expenses on
Schedule A (Form 1040) if you itemize deductions.
Effect on self-employment tax. You can’t
subtract the self-employed health insurance deduction when figuring net earnings for your
self-employment tax from the business under
which the insurance plan is established, or considered to be established, as discussed earlier.
For more information, see Schedule SE (Form
1040).
How to figure the deduction. Generally, you
can use the worksheet in the Form 1040 instructions to figure your deduction. However, if
any of the following apply, you must use Worksheet 6-A in this chapter.
• You had more than one source of income
subject to self-employment tax.
• You file Form 2555.
• You are using amounts paid for qualified
long-term care insurance to figure the deduction.
More than one health plan and business.
If you have more than one health plan during
the year and each plan is established under a
different business, you must use separate worksheets (Worksheet 6-A) to figure each plan's
net earnings limit. Include the premium you paid
under each plan on line 1 or line 2 of that separate worksheet and your net profit (or wages)
from that business on line 4 (or line 11). For a
plan that provides long-term care insurance, the
total of the amounts entered for each person on
line 2 of all worksheets can’t be more than the
appropriate limit shown on line 2 for that person.

Nondeductible
Premiums
You can’t deduct premiums on the following
kinds of insurance.
1. Self-insurance reserve funds. You can’t
deduct amounts credited to a reserve set
up for self-insurance. This applies even if
you can’t get business insurance coverage for certain business risks. However,
your actual losses may be deductible. See
Pub. 547.
2. Loss of earnings. You can’t deduct premiums for a policy that pays for lost earnings
due to sickness or disability. However, see
Page 24

Chapter 6

Insurance

the discussion on overhead insurance,
item (8), under Deductible Premiums, earlier.
3. Certain life insurance and annuities.
a. For contracts issued before June 9,
1997, you can’t deduct the premiums
on a life insurance policy covering
you, an employee, or any person with
a financial interest in your business if
you are directly or indirectly a beneficiary of the policy. You are included
among possible beneficiaries of the
policy if the policy owner is obligated
to repay a loan from you using the
proceeds of the policy. A person has
a financial interest in your business if
the person is an owner or part owner
of the business or has lent money to
the business.
b. For contracts issued after June 8,
1997, you generally can’t deduct the
premiums on any life insurance policy,
endowment contract, or annuity contract if you are directly or indirectly a
beneficiary. The disallowance applies
without regard to whom the policy
covers.
c. Partners. If, as a partner in a partnership, you take out an insurance policy
on your own life and name your partners as beneficiaries to induce them
to retain their investments in the partnership, you are considered a beneficiary. You can't deduct the insurance
premiums.
4. Insurance to secure a loan. If you take out
a policy on your life or on the life of another person with a financial interest in
your business to get or protect a business
loan, you can't deduct the premiums as a
business expense. Nor can you deduct
the premiums as interest on business
loans or as an expense of financing loans.
In the event of death, the proceeds of the
policy are generally not taxed as income
even if they are used to liquidate the debt.

Capitalized Premiums
Under the uniform capitalization rules, you must
capitalize the direct costs and part of the indirect costs for certain production or resale activities. Include these costs in the basis of property
you produce or acquire for resale, rather than
claiming them as a current deduction. You recover the costs through depreciation, amortization, or cost of goods sold when you use, sell,
or otherwise dispose of the property.
Indirect costs include premiums for insurance on your plant or facility, machinery, equipment, materials, property produced, or property
acquired for resale.
Uniform capitalization rules. You may be
subject to the uniform capitalization rules if you
do any of the following, unless the property is
produced for your use other than in a business
or an activity carried on for profit.

1. Produce real property or tangible personal
property. For this purpose, tangible personal property includes a film, sound recording, videotape, book, or similar property.
2. Acquire property for resale.
However, these rules don't apply to the following property.
1. Personal property you acquire for resale if
your average annual gross receipts are
$27 million or less for the 3 prior tax years.
2. Property you produce if you meet either of
the following conditions.
a. Your indirect costs of producing the
property are $200,000 or less.
b. You use the cash method of accounting and don't account for inventories.
More information. For more information on
these rules, see Uniform Capitalization Rules in
Pub. 538 and the regulations under section
263A.

When To Deduct
Premiums
You can usually deduct insurance premiums in
the tax year to which they apply.
Cash method. If you use the cash method of
accounting, you generally deduct insurance
premiums in the tax year you actually paid
them, even if you incurred them in an earlier
year. However, see Prepayment, later.
Accrual method. If you use an accrual
method of accounting, you can't deduct insurance premiums before the tax year in which you
incur a liability for them. In addition, you can't
deduct insurance premiums before the tax year
in which you actually pay them (unless the exception for recurring items applies). For more
information about the accrual method of accounting, see chapter 1. For information about
the exception for recurring items, see Pub. 538.
Prepayment. You can't deduct expenses in
advance, even if you pay them in advance. This
rule applies to any expense paid far enough in
advance to, in effect, create an asset with a
useful life extending substantially beyond the
end of the current tax year.
Expenses such as insurance are generally
allocable to a period of time. You can deduct insurance expenses for the year to which they are
allocable.
Example. In 2022, you signed a 3-year insurance contract. Even though you paid the
premiums for 2022, 2023, and 2024 when you
signed the contract, you can only deduct the
premium for 2022 on your 2022 tax return. You
can deduct in 2023 and 2024 the premiums allocable to those years.
Dividends received. If you receive dividends
from business insurance and you deducted the
premiums in prior years, at least part of the dividends are generally income. For more

information, see Recovery of amount deducted
(tax benefit rule) in chapter 1 under How Much
Can I Deduct.

•
•
•
•

Retired asset removal costs
Barrier removal costs
Film and television production costs
Repair and maintenance costs

31, 2021, must be charged to a separate specified research or experimental capital account
and amortized ratably over a 5-year period or a
15-year period for foreign research. The expenses cannot be deducted in full in the current
year.

Useful Items

You may want to see:

7.

For information on amortizing these costs,
see Research and Experimental Costs in chapter 8.

Publication
544 Sales and Other Dispositions of
Assets
544

Costs You Can
Deduct or
Capitalize

Form (and Instructions)
Schedule C (Form 1040) Profit or Loss
From Business
Schedule C (Form 1040)

3468 Investment Credit
3468

6765 Credit for Increasing Research
Activities
6765

8826 Disabled Access Credit
8826

What’s New
Research and experimental costs. Beginning January 1, 2022, research and experimental expenditures, generally, have to be amortized over a 5-year period. A business cannot
elect to deduct their total research expenses in
the current year. See Research and Experimental Costs in chapter 7 and chapter 8.

Introduction
This chapter discusses costs you can elect to
deduct or capitalize.
You generally deduct a cost as a current
business expense by subtracting it from your income in either the year you incur it or the year
you pay it.
If you capitalize a cost, you may be able to
recover it over a period of years through periodic deductions for amortization, depletion, or
depreciation. When you capitalize a cost, you
add it to the basis of property to which it relates.
A partnership, corporation, estate, or trust
makes the election to deduct or capitalize the
costs discussed in this chapter except for exploration costs for mineral deposits. Each individual partner, shareholder, or beneficiary
elects whether to deduct or capitalize exploration costs.
Individuals, estates, and trusts may be
subject to AMT if they deduct certain
CAUTION research and experimental, intangible
drilling, exploration, development, circulation, or
business organizational costs.

!

For more information on the AMT, see the
Instructions for Form 6251 and the Instructions
for Schedule I (Form 1041).

Topics

This chapter discusses:

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Carrying charges
Research and experimental costs
Intangible drilling costs
Exploration costs
Development costs
Circulation costs
Business startup and organizational costs
Reforestation costs

T (Timber) Forest Activities Schedule
T (Timber)

See chapter 12 for information about getting
publications and forms.

Carrying Charges
Carrying charges include the taxes and interest
you pay to carry or develop real property or to
carry, transport, or install personal property.
Certain carrying charges must be capitalized
under the uniform capitalization rules. (For information on capitalization of interest, see chapter 4.) You can elect to capitalize carrying
charges not subject to the uniform capitalization
rules, but only if they are otherwise deductible.
You can elect to capitalize carrying charges
separately for each project you have and for
each type of carrying charge. Your election is
good for only 1 year for unimproved and unproductive real property. You must decide whether
to capitalize carrying charges each year the
property remains unimproved and unproductive. For other real property, your election to
capitalize carrying charges remains in effect until construction or development is completed.
For personal property, your election is effective
until the date you install or first use it, whichever
is later.

Research and experimental costs defined.
Research or experimental expenditures, as
used in section 174, are research and development costs, including costs incident to research
in the experimental or laboratory sense, you incur in connection with your trade or business for
activities intended to provide information that
would eliminate uncertainty about the development or improvement of a product. Uncertainty
exists if the information available to you does
not establish how to develop or improve a product or the appropriate design of a product.
Whether costs qualify as research and experimental expenditures depends on the nature of
the activity to which the costs relate rather than
on the nature of the product or improvement being developed or the level of technological advancement.
The costs of obtaining a patent, including attorneys' fees paid or incurred in making and
perfecting a patent application, are research
and experimental expenditures. However, costs
paid or incurred to obtain another's patent are
not research and experimental expenditures.
The costs related to developing software are
treated as research and experimental expenditures.
Product. The term “product” includes any
of the following items.
• Formula.
• Invention.
• Patent.
• Pilot model.
• Process.
• Technique.
• Property similar to the items listed above.
It also includes products used by you in your
trade or business or held for sale, lease, or license.

Research and
Experimental Costs

Costs not included. Research and experimental expenditures do not include expenses
for any of the following activities.
• Advertising or promotions.
• Consumer surveys.
• Efficiency surveys.
• Land, including acquisition and improvement costs for land.
• Acquisition and improvement costs of depreciable property.
• Exploration costs for the purpose of ascertaining the existence, location, extent, or
quality of any deposit of ore or other mineral.
• Management studies.
• Quality control testing.
• Research in connection with literary, historical, or similar projects.
• The acquisition of another's patent, model,
production, or process.

Research or experimental expenditures paid or
incurred in tax years beginning after December

Research credit. If you pay or incur costs that
may be treated as research or experimental

How to make the election. To make the election to capitalize a carrying charge, attach a
statement to your original tax return for the year
the election is to be effective indicating which
charges you are electing to capitalize. However,
if you timely filed your return for the year without
making the election, you can still make the election by filing an amended return within 6 months
of the due date of the return (excluding extensions). Attach the statement to the amended return and write “Filed pursuant to section
301.9100-2” on the statement. File the amended return at the same address you filed the
original return.

Chapter 7

Costs You Can Deduct or Capitalize

Page 25

costs, you may be able to take the research
credit. For more information, see Form 6765
and its instructions.
Payroll tax credit. The payroll tax credit is an
annual election made by a qualified small business specifying the amount of research credit,
not to exceed $250,000, that may be used
against the employer portion of social security
liability. The credit is the smallest of the current
year research credit, an elected amount not to
exceed $250,000, or the general business
credit carryforward for the tax year (before the
application of the payroll tax credit election for
the tax year). The election must be made on or
before the due date of the originally filed return
(including extensions). An election cannot be
made for a tax year if an election was made for
5 or more preceding tax years. The election
made by a partnership or S corporation is made
at the entity level.
A qualified small business that elects to
claim the payroll tax credit will claim the payroll
tax credit against the employer's portion of social security tax on its employment tax return for
the first quarter that begins after it files the return reflecting the payroll tax election. For more
information, see the Instructions for Form 6765.

Intangible Drilling Costs
The costs of developing oil, gas, or geothermal
wells are ordinarily capital expenditures. You
can usually recover them through depreciation
or depletion. However, you can elect to deduct
intangible drilling costs (IDCs) as a current business expense. These are certain drilling and
development costs for wells in the United
States in which you hold an operating or working interest. You can deduct only costs for drilling or preparing a well for the production of oil,
gas, or geothermal steam or hot water.
You can elect to deduct only the costs of
items with no salvage value. These include wages, fuel, repairs, hauling, and supplies related
to drilling wells and preparing them for production. Your cost for any drilling or development
work done by contractors under any form of
contract is also an IDC. However, see Amounts
paid to contractor that must be capitalized,
later.
You can also elect to deduct the cost of drilling exploratory bore holes to determine the location and delineation of offshore hydrocarbon
deposits if the shaft is capable of conducting
hydrocarbons to the surface on completion. It
does not matter whether there is any intent to
produce hydrocarbons.
If you do not elect to deduct your IDCs as a
current business expense, you can elect to deduct them over the 60-month period beginning
with the month they were paid or incurred.
Amounts paid to contractor that must be
capitalized. Amounts paid to a contractor
must be capitalized if they are either:
• Amounts properly allocable to the cost of
depreciable property, or
• Amounts paid only out of production or
proceeds from production if these amounts
are depletable income to the recipient.
Page 26

Chapter 7

How to make the election. You elect to deduct IDCs as a current business expense by
taking the deduction on your income tax return
for the first tax year you have eligible costs. No
formal statement is required. If you file Schedule C (Form 1040), enter these costs under
“Other expenses.”
For oil and gas wells, your election is binding for the year it is made and for all later years.
For geothermal wells, your election can be revoked by the filing of an amended return on
which you do not take the deduction. You can
file the amended return for the year up to the
normal time of expiration for filing a claim for
credit or refund, generally, within 3 years after
the date you filed the original return or within 2
years after the date you paid the tax, whichever
is later.
Energy credit for costs of geothermal wells.
If you capitalize the drilling and development
costs of geothermal wells that you place in service during the tax year, you may be able to
claim a business energy credit. See the Instructions for Form 3468 for more information.
Nonproductive well. If you capitalize your
IDCs, you have another option if the well is nonproductive. You can deduct the IDCs of the
nonproductive well as an ordinary loss. You
must indicate and clearly state your election on
your tax return for the year the well is completed. Once made, the election for oil and gas
wells is binding for all later years. You can revoke your election for a geothermal well by filing
an amended return that does not claim the loss.
Costs incurred outside the United States.
You cannot deduct as a current business expense all the IDCs paid or incurred for an oil,
gas, or geothermal well located outside the United States. However, you can elect to include
the costs in the adjusted basis of the well to figure depletion or depreciation. If you do not
make this election, you can deduct the costs
over the 10-year period beginning with the tax
year in which you paid or incurred them. These
rules do not apply to a nonproductive well.

Exploration Costs
The costs of determining the existence, location, extent, or quality of any mineral deposit are
ordinarily capital expenditures if the costs lead
to the development of a mine. You recover
these costs through depletion as the mineral is
removed from the ground. However, you can
elect to deduct domestic exploration costs paid
or incurred before the beginning of the development stage of the mine (except those for oil and
gas wells).
How to make the election. You elect to deduct exploration costs by taking the deduction
on your income tax return, or on an amended
income tax return, for the first tax year for which
you wish to deduct the costs paid or incurred
during the tax year. Your return must adequately describe and identify each property or
mine, and clearly state how much is being deducted for each one. The election applies to the
tax year you make this election and all later tax
years.

Costs You Can Deduct or Capitalize

Partnerships and S corporations. Each
partner, not the partnership, elects whether to
capitalize or to deduct that partner's share of
exploration costs. Each shareholder, not the S
corporation, elects whether to capitalize or to
deduct that shareholder's share of exploration
costs.
Reduced corporate deductions for exploration costs. A corporation (other than an S corporation) can deduct only 70% of its domestic
exploration costs. It must capitalize the remaining 30% of costs and amortize them over the
60-month period starting with the month the exploration costs are paid or incurred. A corporation may also elect to capitalize and amortize
mining exploration costs over a 10-year period.
For more information on this method of amortization, see section 59(e).
The 30% that the corporation capitalizes
cannot be added to its basis in the property to
figure cost depletion. However, the amount
amortized is treated as additional depreciation
and is subject to recapture as ordinary income
on a disposition of the property. See Section
1250 Property under Depreciation Recapture in
chapter 3 of Pub. 544.
These rules also apply to the deduction of
development costs by corporations. See Development Costs, later.
Recapture of exploration expenses. When
your mine reaches the producing stage, you
must recapture any exploration costs you elected to deduct. Use either of the following methods.
Method 1—Include the deducted costs in
gross income for the tax year the mine reaches the producing stage. Your election
must be clearly indicated on the return. Increase your adjusted basis in the mine by
the amount included in income. Generally,
you must elect this recapture method by
the due date (including extensions) of your
return. However, if you timely filed your return for the year without making the election, you can still make the election by filing
an amended return within 6 months of the
due date of the return (excluding extensions). Make the election on your amended
return and write “Filed pursuant to section
301.9100-2” on the form where you are including the income. File the amended return at the same address you filed the original return.
Method 2—Do not claim any depletion deduction for the tax year the mine reaches
the producing stage and any later tax years
until the depletion you would have deducted equals the exploration costs you deducted.
You must also recapture deducted exploration costs if you receive a bonus or royalty from
mine property before it reaches the producing
stage. Do not claim any depletion deduction for
the tax year you receive the bonus or royalty
and any later tax years until the depletion you
would have deducted equals the exploration
costs you deducted.
Generally, if you dispose of the mine before
you have fully recaptured the exploration costs
you deducted, recapture the balance by treating
all or part of your gain as ordinary income.

Under these circumstances, you generally treat
as ordinary income all of your gain if it is less
than your adjusted exploration costs with respect to the mine. If your gain is more than your
adjusted exploration costs, treat as ordinary income only a part of your gain, up to the amount
of your adjusted exploration costs.
Foreign exploration costs. If you pay or incur
exploration costs for a mine or other natural deposit located outside the United States, you
cannot deduct all the costs in the current year.
You can elect to include the costs (other than
for an oil, gas, or geothermal well) in the adjusted basis of the mineral property to figure cost
depletion. (Cost depletion is discussed in chapter 9.) If you do not make this election, you must
deduct the costs over the 10-year period beginning with the tax year in which you pay or incur
them. These rules also apply to foreign development costs.

Development Costs
You can deduct costs paid or incurred during
the tax year for developing a mine or any other
natural deposit (other than an oil or gas well) located in the United States. These costs must be
paid or incurred after the discovery of ores or
minerals in commercially marketable quantities.
Development costs also include depreciation
on improvements used in the development of
ores or minerals and costs incurred for you by a
contractor. Development costs do not include
the costs for the acquisition or improvement of
depreciable property.
Instead of deducting development costs in
the year paid or incurred, you can elect to treat
the costs as deferred expenses and deduct
them ratably as the units of produced ores or
minerals benefited by the expenses are sold.
This election applies each tax year to expenses
paid or incurred in that year. Once made, the
election is binding for the year and cannot be
revoked for any reason.
How to make the election. The election to
deduct development costs ratably as the ores
or minerals are sold must be made for each
mine or other natural deposit by a clear indication on your return or by a statement filed with
the IRS office where you file your return. Generally, you must make the election by the due
date of the return (including extensions). However, if you timely filed your return for the year
without making the election, you can still make
the election by filing an amended return within 6
months of the due date of the return (excluding
extensions). Clearly indicate the election on
your amended return and write “Filed pursuant
to section 301.9100-2.” File the amended return
at the same address you filed the original return.
Foreign development costs. The rules discussed earlier for Foreign exploration costs apply to foreign development costs.
Reduced corporate deductions for development costs. The rules discussed earlier for
Reduced corporate deductions for exploration
costs also apply to corporate deductions for development costs.

Circulation Costs
A publisher can deduct as a current business
expense the costs of establishing, maintaining,
or increasing the circulation of a newspaper,
magazine, or other periodical. For example, a
publisher can deduct the cost of hiring extra
employees for a limited time to get new subscriptions through telephone calls. Circulation
costs may be deducted even if they would normally be capitalized.
This rule does not apply to the following
costs that must be capitalized.
• The purchase of land or depreciable property.
• The acquisition of circulation through the
purchase of any part of the business of another publisher of a newspaper, magazine,
or other periodical, including the purchase
of another publisher's list of subscribers.
Other treatment of circulation costs. If you
do not want to deduct circulation costs as a current business expense, you can elect one of the
following ways to recover these costs.
• Capitalize all circulation costs that are
properly chargeable to a capital account
(see chapter 1).
• Amortize circulation costs over the 3-year
period beginning with the tax year they
were paid or incurred.
How to make the election. You elect to capitalize circulation costs by attaching a statement
to your return for the first tax year the election
applies. Your election is binding for the year it is
made and for all later years, unless you get IRS
approval to revoke it.

Business Startup and
Organizational Costs
Business startup and organizational costs are
generally capital expenditures. However, you
can elect to deduct up to $5,000 of business
startup and $5,000 of organizational costs paid
or incurred after October 22, 2004. The $5,000
deduction is reduced by the amount your total
startup or organizational costs exceed $50,000.
Any remaining costs must be amortized. For information about amortizing startup and organizational costs, see chapter 8.
Startup costs include any amounts paid or
incurred in connection with creating an active
trade or business or investigating the creation
or acquisition of an active trade or business. Organizational costs include the costs of creating
a corporation or partnership.
How to make the election. You elect to deduct the startup or organizational costs by
claiming the deduction on your income tax return (filed by the due date including extensions)
for the tax year in which the active trade or business begins. For costs paid or incurred after
September 8, 2008, you are not required to attach a statement to your return to elect to deduct such costs. However, for startup or organizational costs paid or incurred before
September 9, 2008, you may be required to atChapter 7

tach a statement to your return to elect to deduct such costs. If you timely filed your return
for the year without making the election, you
can still make the election by filing an amended
return within 6 months of the due date of the return (excluding extensions). Clearly indicate the
election on your amended return and write
“Filed pursuant to section 301.9100-2.”
File the amended return at the same address you filed the original return. The election
applies when figuring taxable income for the
current tax year and all subsequent years. Once
made, the election is irrevocable. For more information on startup and organizational costs,
see chapter 8.

Reforestation Costs
Reforestation costs are generally capital expenditures. However, you can elect to deduct up to
$10,000 ($5,000 if married filing separately; $0
for a trust) of qualifying reforestation costs paid
or incurred after October 22, 2004, for each
qualified timber property. The remaining costs
can be amortized over an 84-month period. For
information about amortizing reforestation
costs, see chapter 8.
Qualifying reforestation costs are the direct
costs of planting or seeding for forestation or reforestation. Qualified timber property is property
that contains trees in significant commercial
quantities. See chapter 8 for more information
on qualifying reforestation costs and qualified
timber property.
If you elect to deduct qualified reforestation
costs, create and maintain separate timber accounts for each qualified timber property and include all reforestation costs and the dates each
was applied. Do not include this qualified timber
property in any account (for example, depletion
block) for which depletion is allowed.
How to make the election. You elect to deduct qualifying reforestation costs by claiming
the deduction on your timely filed income tax return (including extensions) for the tax year the
expenses were paid or incurred. If Form T (Timber) is required, complete Part IV of the form. If
Form T (Timber) is not required, attach a statement containing the following information for
each qualified timber property for which an
election is being made.
• The unique stand identification numbers.
• The total number of acres reforested during the tax year.
• The nature of the reforestation treatments.
• The total amounts of qualified reforestation
expenditures eligible to be amortized or
deducted.
If you timely filed your return for the year
without making the election, you can still make
the election by filing an amended return within 6
months of the due date of the return (excluding
extensions). Clearly indicate the election on
your amended return and write “Filed pursuant
to section 301.9100-2.” File the amended return
at the same address you filed the original return. The election applies when figuring taxable
income for the current tax year and all subsequent years.

Costs You Can Deduct or Capitalize

Page 27

For additional information on reforestation
costs, see chapter 8.

that the partner was able to deduct the distributive share of the partnership's costs in full.

Recapture. This deduction may have to be recaptured as ordinary income under section
1245 when you sell or otherwise dispose of the
property that would have received an addition
to basis if you had not elected to deduct the expenditure. For more information on recapturing
the deduction, see Depreciation Recapture in
Pub. 544.

Example. Emilio Azul's distributive share of
ABC partnership's deductible expenses for the
removal of architectural barriers was $14,000.
Emilio had $12,000 of similar expenses in his
sole proprietorship. He elected to deduct
$7,000 of them. Emilio allocated the remaining
$8,000 of the $15,000 limit to his share of
ABC's expenses. Emilio can add the excess
$5,000 of his own expenses to the basis of the
property used in his business. Also, if ABC can
show that Emilio could not deduct $6,000
($14,000 – $8,000) of his share of the partnership's expenses because of how Emilio applied
the limit, ABC can add $6,000 to the basis of its
property.

Retired Asset Removal
Costs
If you retire and remove a depreciable asset in
connection with the installation or production of
a replacement asset, you can deduct the costs
of removing the retired asset. However, if you
replace a component (part) of a depreciable asset, capitalize the removal costs if the replacement is an improvement and deduct the costs if
the replacement is a repair.

Barrier Removal Costs
The cost of an improvement to a business asset
is normally a capital expense. However, you
can elect to deduct the costs of making a facility
or public transportation vehicle more accessible
to and usable by those who are disabled or elderly. You must own or lease the facility or vehicle for use in connection with your trade or business.
A facility is all or any part of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, or
similar real or personal property. A public transportation vehicle is a vehicle, such as a bus or
railroad car, that provides transportation service
to the public (including service for your customers, even if you are not in the business of providing transportation services).
You cannot deduct any costs that you paid
or incurred to completely renovate or build a facility or public transportation vehicle or to replace depreciable property in the normal course
of business.
Deduction limit. The most you can deduct as
a cost of removing barriers to the disabled and
the elderly for any tax year is $15,000. However, you can add any costs over this limit to the
basis of the property and depreciate these excess costs.
Partners and partnerships. The $15,000 limit
applies to a partnership and also to each partner in the partnership. A partner can allocate
the $15,000 limit in any manner among the partner's individually incurred costs and the partner's distributive share of partnership costs. If
the partner cannot deduct the entire share of
partnership costs, the partnership can add any
costs not deducted to the basis of the improved
property.
A partnership must be able to show that any
amount added to basis was not deducted by
the partner and that it was over a partner's
$15,000 limit (as determined by the partner). If
the partnership cannot show this, it is presumed
Page 28

Chapter 7

Qualification standards. You can deduct
your costs as a current expense only if the barrier removal meets the guidelines and requirements issued by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board under the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990.
You can view the ADA at ADA.gov/pubs/
ada.htm.
The following is a list of some architectural
barrier removal costs that can be deducted.
• Ground and floor surfaces.
• Walks.
• Parking lots.
• Ramps.
• Entrances.
• Doors and doorways.
• Stairs.
• Floors.
• Toilet rooms.
• Water fountains.
• Public telephones.
• Elevators.
• Controls.
• Signage.
• Alarms.
• Protruding objects.
• Symbols of accessibility.
You can find the ADA guidelines and requirements for architectural barrier removal at
USDOJ.gov/crt/ada/reg3a.html.
The costs for removal of transportation barriers from rail facilities, buses, and rapid and light
rail vehicles are deductible. You can find the
guidelines and requirements for transportation
barrier removal at transit.dot.gov.
Also, you can access the ADA website at
ADA.gov for additional information.
Other barrier removals. To be deductible,
expenses of removing any barrier not covered
by the above standards must meet all three of
the following tests.
1. The removed barrier must be a substantial
barrier to access or use of a facility or public transportation vehicle by persons who
have a disability or are elderly.
2. The removed barrier must have been a
barrier for at least one major group of persons who have a disability or are elderly
(such as people who are blind, deaf, or
wheelchair users).

Costs You Can Deduct or Capitalize

3. The barrier must be removed without creating any new barrier that significantly impairs access to or use of the facility or vehicle by a major group of persons who
have a disability or are elderly.
How to make the election. If you elect to deduct your costs for removing barriers to the disabled or the elderly, claim the deduction on
your income tax return (partnership return for
partnerships) for the tax year the expenses
were paid or incurred. Identify the deduction as
a separate item. The election applies to all the
qualifying costs you have during the year, up to
the $15,000 limit. If you make this election, you
must maintain adequate records to support your
deduction.
For your election to be valid, you must generally file your return by its due date, including
extensions. However, if you timely filed your return for the year without making the election,
you can still make the election by filing an
amended return within 6 months of the due date
of the return (excluding extensions). Clearly indicate the election on your amended return and
write “Filed pursuant to section 301.9100-2.”
File the amended return at the same address
you filed the original return. Your election is irrevocable after the due date, including extensions, of your return.
Disabled access credit. If you make your
business accessible to persons with disabilities
and your business is an eligible small business,
you may be able to claim the disabled access
credit. If you choose to claim the credit, you
must reduce the amount you deduct or capitalize by the amount of the credit.
For more information, see Form 8826.

Film, Television, and
Live Theatrical
Production Costs
Film, television, and theatrical production costs
are generally capital expenses. However, you
can elect to deduct certain costs of a qualified
film, television, or live theatrical production
commencing before January 1, 2026 (after December 31, 2015, and before January 1, 2026,
for a live theatrical production), if the aggregate
cost of the production doesn't exceed $15 million. There is a higher dollar limitation for productions in certain areas. The deduction is subject to recapture under section 1245 if the
election is voluntarily revoked or the production
fails to meet the requirements for the deduction.
For more information, see section 181 and the
related regulations.
Certain qualified film, television, or live theatrical productions acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017, may be eligible
for the special depreciation allowance under
section 168(k). For more information, see Pub.
946, How To Depreciate Property.
Note. No other depreciation or amortization
deduction is allowed for costs of qualified film or
television production or any qualified live theatrical production if an election is made to deduct
such costs.

Repair and Maintenance
Costs
Generally, you can deduct amounts paid for repairs and maintenance to tangible property if
the amounts paid are not otherwise required to
be capitalized. However, you may elect to capitalize amounts paid for repair and maintenance
consistent with the treatment on your books and
records. If you make this election, it applies to
all amounts paid for repair and maintenance to
tangible property that you treat as capital expenditures on your books and records for the
tax year.
How to make the election. To make the election to treat repairs and maintenance as capital
expenditures, attach a statement titled “Section
1.263(a)-3(n) Election” to your timely filed return
(including extensions). For more information on
what to include in the statement, see Regulations section 1.263(a)-3(n). If you timely filed
your return without making the election, you can
still make the election by filing an amended return within 6 months of the due date of the return (excluding extensions). Attach the statement to the amended return and write “Filed
pursuant to section 301.9100-2” on the statement. File the amended return at the same address you filed the original return.

Topics

This chapter discusses:

•
•
•
•
•
•

Deducting amortization
Amortizing costs of starting a business
Amortizing costs of getting a lease
Amortizing costs of section 197 intangibles
Amortizing reforestation costs
Amortizing costs of geological and
geophysical costs
• Amortizing costs of pollution control
facilities
• Amortizing costs of research and
experimentation
• Amortizing costs of certain tax preferences

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
544 Sales and Other Dispositions of
Assets
544

550 Investment Income and Expenses
550

946 How To Depreciate Property
946

Form (and Instructions)
3115 Application for Change in
Accounting Method
3115

4562 Depreciation and Amortization
4562

6251 Alternative Minimum
Tax—Individuals
6251

8.
Amortization
What's New
Amortization of research and experimental
expenditures. Specified research or experimental costs paid or incurred in tax years beginning after 2021 must be capitalized and amortized ratably over a 5-year period (15-year
period for any expenditures related to foreign
research). See Research and Experimental
Costs, later.

Introduction
Amortization is a method of recovering (deducting) certain capital costs over a fixed period of
time. It is similar to the straight line method of
depreciation.
The various amortizable costs covered in
this chapter are included in the list below. However, this chapter doesn't discuss amortization
of bond premium. For information on that topic,
see chapter 3 of Pub. 550, Investment Expenses.

See chapter 12 for information about getting
publications and forms.

How To Deduct
Amortization
To deduct amortization that begins during the
current tax year, complete Part VI of Form 4562
and attach it to your income tax return.
To report amortization from previous years,
in addition to amortization that begins in the current year, list on Form 4562 each item separately. For example, in 2021, you began to amortize a lease. In 2022, you began to amortize a
second lease. Report amortization from the new
lease on line 42 of your 2022 Form 4562. Report amortization from the 2021 lease on line 43
of your 2022 Form 4562.
If you don't have any new amortizable expenses for the current year, you aren't required
to complete Form 4562 (unless you are claiming depreciation). Report the current year's deduction for amortization that began in a prior
year directly on the “Other deduction” or “Other
expense” line of your return.

Starting a Business
When you start a business, treat all eligible
costs you incur before you begin operating the
business as capital expenditures that are part of
your basis in the business. Generally, you recover costs for particular assets through depreciation deductions. However, you generally

can't recover other costs until you sell the business or otherwise go out of business. For a discussion on how to treat these costs, see If your
attempt to go into business is unsuccessful under Capital Expenses in chapter 1.
For costs paid or incurred after September
8, 2008, you can deduct a limited amount of
startup and organizational costs. The costs that
aren't deducted currently can be amortized ratably over a 180-month period. The amortization
period starts with the month you begin operating your active trade or business. You aren't required to attach a statement to make this election. You can choose to forgo this election by
affirmatively electing to capitalize your startup
costs on your income tax return filed by the due
date (including extensions) for the tax year in
which the active trade or business begins. Once
made, the election to either amortize or capitalize startup costs is irrevocable and applies to all
startup costs that are related to your trade or
business. See Regulations sections 1.195-1,
1.248-1, and 1.709-1.
For costs paid or incurred after October 22,
2004, and before September 9, 2008, you can
elect to deduct a limited amount of business
startup and organizational costs in the year your
active trade or business begins. Any costs not
deducted can be amortized ratably over a
180-month period, beginning with the month
you begin business. If the election is made, you
must attach any statement required by Regulations sections 1.195-1(b), 1.248-1(c), and
1.709-1(c), as in effect before September 9,
2008.
Note. You can apply the provisions of Regulations sections 1.195-1, 1.248-1, and 1.709-1
to all business startup and organizational costs
paid or incurred after October 22, 2004, provided the period of limitations on assessment
hasn't expired for the year of the election. Otherwise, for business startup and organizational
costs paid or incurred after October 22, 2004,
and before September 9, 2008, the provisions
under
Regulations
sections
1.195-1(b),
1.248-1(c), and 1.709-1(c), as in effect before
September 9, 2008, will apply.
For costs paid or incurred before October
23, 2004, you can elect to amortize business
startup and organizational costs over an amortization period of 60 months or more. See How
To Make the Election, later.
The cost must qualify as one of the following.
• A business startup cost.
• An organizational cost for a corporation.
• An organizational cost for a partnership.

Business Startup Costs
Startup costs are amounts paid or incurred for
(a) creating an active trade or business, or (b)
investigating the creation or acquisition of an
active trade or business. Startup costs include
amounts paid or incurred in connection with an
existing activity engaged in for profit, and for the
production of income in anticipation of the activity becoming an active trade or business.

Chapter 8

Amortization

Page 29

Qualifying costs. A startup cost is amortizable if it meets both of the following tests.
• It is a cost you could deduct if you paid or
incurred it to operate an existing active
trade or business (in the same field as the
one you entered into).
• It is a cost you pay or incur before the day
your active trade or business begins.
Startup costs include amounts paid for the
following.
• An analysis or survey of potential markets,
products, labor supply, transportation facilities, etc.
• Advertisements for the opening of the business.
• Salaries and wages for employees who are
being trained and their instructors.
• Travel and other necessary costs for securing prospective distributors, suppliers,
or customers.
• Salaries and fees for executives and consultants, or for similar professional services.
Nonqualifying costs. Startup costs don't include deductible interest, taxes, or research
and experimental costs. See Research and Experimental Costs, later.
Purchasing an active trade or business.
Amortizable startup costs for purchasing an active trade or business include only investigative
costs incurred in the course of a general search
for or preliminary investigation of the business.
These are costs that help you decide whether
to purchase a business. Costs you incur in an
attempt to purchase a specific business are
capital expenses that you can't amortize.
Example. On June 1, you hired an accounting firm and a law firm to assist you in the
potential purchase of XYZ, Inc. They researched XYZ's industry and analyzed the financial projections of XYZ, Inc. In September,
the law firm prepared and submitted a letter of
intent to XYZ, Inc. The letter stated that a binding commitment would result only after a purchase agreement was signed. The law firm and
accounting firm continued to provide services,
including a review of XYZ's books and records
and the preparation of a purchase agreement.
On October 22, you signed a purchase agreement with XYZ, Inc.
All amounts paid or incurred to investigate
the business before October 22 are amortizable
investigative costs. Amounts paid on or after
that date relate to the attempt to purchase the
business and therefore must be capitalized.
Disposition of business. If you completely
dispose of your business before the end of the
amortization period, you can deduct any remaining deferred startup costs. However, you
can deduct these deferred startup costs only to
the extent they qualify as a loss from a business.

Costs of Organizing a
Corporation
Amounts paid to organize a corporation are the
direct costs of creating the corporation.

Page 30

Chapter 8

Amortization

Qualifying costs. To qualify as an organizational cost, it must be:
• For the creation of the corporation,
• Chargeable to a capital account (see chapter 1),
• Amortized over the life of the corporation if
the corporation had a fixed life, and
• Incurred before the end of the first tax year
in which the corporation is in business.
A corporation using the cash method of accounting can amortize organizational costs incurred within the first tax year, even if it doesn't
pay them in that year.
Examples of organizational costs include
the following.
• The cost of temporary directors.
• The cost of organizational meetings.
• State incorporation fees.
• The cost of legal services.
Nonqualifying costs. The following items are
capital expenses that can't be amortized.
• Costs for issuing and selling stock or securities, such as commissions, professional fees, and printing costs.
• Costs associated with the transfer of assets to the corporation.

Costs of Organizing a
Partnership
The costs to organize a partnership are the direct costs of creating the partnership.
Qualifying costs. A partnership can amortize
an organizational cost only if it meets all the following tests.
• It is for the creation of the partnership and
not for starting or operating the partnership
trade or business.
• It is chargeable to a capital account (see
chapter 1).
• It could be amortized over the life of the
partnership if the partnership had a fixed
life.
• It is incurred by the due date of the partnership return (excluding extensions) for the
first tax year in which the partnership is in
business. However, if the partnership uses
the cash method of accounting and pays
the cost after the end of its first tax year,
see Cash method partnership under How
To Amortize, later.
• It is for a type of item normally expected to
benefit the partnership throughout its entire
life.

• The cost of admitting or removing partners,
other than at the time the partnership is
first organized.
• The cost of making a contract concerning
the operation of the partnership trade or
business, including a contract between a
partner and the partnership.
• The costs for issuing and marketing interests in the partnership such as brokerage,
registration, and legal fees and printing
costs. These “syndication fees” are capital
expenses that can't be depreciated or
amortized.

Liquidation of partnership. If a partnership
is liquidated before the end of the amortization
period, the unamortized amount of qualifying organizational costs can be deducted in the partnership's final tax year. However, these costs
can be deducted only to the extent they qualify
as a loss from a business.

How To Amortize
Deduct startup and organizational costs in
equal amounts over the applicable amortization
period (discussed earlier under Business
Startup Costs). You can choose an amortization
period for startup costs that is different from the
period you choose for organizational costs, as
long as both aren't less than the applicable amortization period. Once you choose an amortization period, you can't change it.
To figure your deduction, divide your total
startup or organizational costs by the months in
the amortization period. The result is the
amount you can deduct for each month.
Cash method partnership. A partnership using the cash method of accounting can deduct
an organizational cost only if it has been paid by
the end of the tax year. However, any cost the
partnership could have deducted as an organizational cost in an earlier tax year (if it had been
paid that year) can be deducted in the tax year
of payment.

How To Make the Election
To elect to amortize startup or organizational
costs, you must complete and attach Form
4562 to your return for the first tax year you are
in business. You may also be required to attach
an organizational costs election statement (described later) to your return.

Organizational costs include the following
fees.
• Legal fees for services incident to the organization of the partnership, such as negotiation and preparation of the partnership agreement.
• Accounting fees for services incident to the
organization of the partnership.
• Filing fees.

For startup or organizational costs paid or
incurred after September 8, 2008, an accompanying statement isn't required. Generally, for
startup or organizational costs paid or incurred
before September 9, 2008, and after October
22, 2004, unless you choose to apply Regulations sections 1.195-1, 1.248-1, and 1.709-1,
you must also attach an accompanying statement to elect to amortize the costs.

Nonqualifying costs. The following costs
can't be amortized.
• The cost of acquiring assets for the partnership or transferring assets to the partnership.

If you have both startup and organizational
costs, attach a separate statement (if required)
to your return for each type of cost. See Starting
a Business, earlier, for more information.
Generally, you must file the return by the
due date (including any extensions). However,

if you timely filed your return for the year without
making the election, you can still make the election by filing an amended return within 6 months
of the due date of the return (excluding extensions). For more information, see the instructions for Part VI of Form 4562.
You can choose to forgo the election to amortize by affirmatively electing to capitalize your
startup or organizational costs on your income
tax return filed by the due date (including extensions) for the tax year in which the active trade
or business begins.
Note. The election to either amortize or
capitalize startup or organizational costs is irrevocable and applies to all startup and organizational costs that are related to the trade or
business.
If your business is organized as a corporation or partnership, only the corporation or partnership can elect to amortize its startup or organizational costs. A shareholder or partner
can't make this election. You, as a shareholder
or partner, can't amortize any costs you incur in
setting up your corporation or partnership. Only
the corporation or partnership can amortize
these costs.
However, you, as an individual, can elect to
amortize costs you incur to investigate an interest in an existing partnership. These costs qualify as business startup costs if you acquire the
partnership interest.
Startup costs election statement. If you
elect to amortize your startup costs, attach a
separate statement (if required) that contains
the following information.
• A description of the business to which the
startup costs relate.
• A description of each startup cost incurred.
• The month your active business began (or
was acquired).
• The number of months in your amortization
period (which is generally 180 months).
Filing the statement early. You can elect
to amortize your startup costs by filing the statement with a return for any tax year before the
year your active business begins. If you file the
statement early, the election becomes effective
in the month of the tax year your active business begins.
Revised statement. You can file a revised
statement to include any startup costs not included in your original statement. However, you
can't include on the revised statement any cost
you previously treated on your return as a cost
other than a startup cost. You can file the revised statement with a return filed after the return on which you elected to amortize your
startup costs.
Organizational costs election statement. If
you elect to amortize your corporation's or partnership's organizational costs, attach a separate statement (if required) that contains the following information.
• A description of each cost.
• The amount of each cost.
• The date each cost was incurred.

• The month your corporation or partnership

began active business (or acquired the
business).
• The number of months in your amortization
period (which is generally 180 months).
Partnerships. The statement prepared for
a cash basis partnership must also indicate the
amount paid before the end of the year for each
cost.
You don't need to separately list any partnership organizational cost that is less than
$10. Instead, you can list the total amount of
these costs with the dates the first and last
costs were incurred.
After a partnership makes the election to
amortize organizational costs, it can later file an
amended return to include additional organizational costs not included in the partnership's
original return and statement.

Getting a Lease
If you get a lease for business property, you
may recover the cost of acquiring the lease by
amortizing it over the term of the lease. The
term of the lease for amortization purposes generally includes all renewal options (and any
other period for which you and the lessor reasonably expect the lease to be renewed). However, renewal periods aren't included if 75% or
more of the cost of acquiring the lease is for the
term of the lease remaining on the acquisition
date (not including any period for which you
may choose to renew, extend, or continue the
lease).
For more information on the costs of getting
a lease, see Cost of Getting a Lease in
chapter 3.
How to amortize. Enter your deduction in
Part VI of Form 4562 if you are deducting amortization that begins during the current year, or
on the appropriate line of your tax return if you
aren't otherwise required to file Form 4562.

Section 197 Intangibles

You can't deduct amortization for the month you
dispose of the intangible.
If you pay or incur an amount that increases
the basis of an amortizable section 197 intangible after the 15-year period begins, amortize it
over the remainder of the 15-year period beginning with the month the basis increase occurs.
You aren't allowed any other depreciation or
amortization deduction for an amortizable section 197 intangible.
Tax-exempt use property subject to a lease.
The amortization period for any section 197 intangible leased under a lease agreement entered into after March 12, 2004, to a tax-exempt
organization, governmental unit, or foreign person or entity (other than a partnership), shall not
be less than 125% of the lease term.
Cost attributable to other property. The
rules for section 197 intangibles don't apply to
any amount that is included in determining the
cost of property that isn't a section 197 intangible. For example, if the cost of computer software isn't separately stated from the cost of
hardware or other tangible property and you
consistently treat it as part of the cost of the
hardware or other tangible property, these rules
don't apply. Similarly, none of the cost of acquiring real property held for the production of
rental income is considered the cost of goodwill, going concern value, or any other section
197 intangible.

Section 197 Intangibles
Defined
The following assets are section 197 intangibles
and must be amortized over 180 months.
1. Goodwill.
2. Going concern value.
3. Workforce in place.
4. Business books and records, operating
systems, or any other information base, including lists or other information concerning current or prospective customers.

Generally, you may amortize the capitalized
costs of “section 197 intangibles” (see Section
197 Intangibles Defined, later) ratably over a
15-year period. You must amortize these costs
if you hold the section 197 intangibles in connection with your trade or business or in an activity engaged in for the production of income.

5. A patent, copyright, formula, process, design, pattern, know-how, format, or similar
item.

You may not be able to amortize section 197 intangibles acquired in a transCAUTION action that didn't result in a significant
change in ownership or use. See Anti-Churning
Rules, later.

9. A license, permit, or other right granted by
a governmental unit or agency (including
issuances and renewals).

!

Your amortization deduction each year is
the applicable part of the intangible's adjusted
basis (for purposes of determining gain), figured by amortizing it ratably over 15 years (180
months). The 15-year period begins with the
later of:
• The month the intangible is acquired, or
• The month the trade or business or activity
engaged in for the production of income
begins.

6. A customer-based intangible.
7. A supplier-based intangible.
8. Any item similar to items 3 through 7.

10. A covenant not to compete entered into in
connection with the acquisition of an interest in a trade or business.
11. Any franchise, trademark, or trade name.
12. A contract for the use of, or a term interest
in, any item in this list.

Chapter 8

Amortization

Page 31

You can't amortize any of the intangibles listed in items 1 through 8 that you
CAUTION created rather than acquired unless
you created them in acquiring assets that make
up a trade or business or a substantial part of a
trade or business.

!

Goodwill. This is the value of a trade or business based on expected continued customer
patronage due to its name, reputation, or any
other factor.
Going concern value. This is the additional
value of a trade or business that attaches to
property because the property is an integral
part of an ongoing business activity. It includes
value based on the ability of a business to continue to function and generate income even
though there is a change in ownership (but
doesn't include any other section 197 intangible). It also includes value based on the immediate use or availability of an acquired trade or
business, such as the use of earnings during
any period in which the business wouldn't otherwise be available or operational.
Workforce in place, etc. This includes the
composition of a workforce (for example, its experience, education, or training). It also includes
the terms and conditions of employment,
whether contractual or otherwise, and any other
value placed on employees or any of their attributes.
For example, you must amortize the part of
the purchase price of a business that is for the
existence of a highly skilled workforce. Also,
you must amortize the cost of acquiring an existing employment contract or relationship with
employees or consultants.

Accounts receivable or other similar rights to
income for goods or services provided to customers before the acquisition of a trade or business aren't section 197 intangibles.
Supplier-based intangible. A supplier-based
intangible is the value resulting from the future
acquisitions (through contract or other relationships with suppliers in the ordinary course of
business) of goods or services that you will sell
or use. The amount you pay or incur for supplier-based intangibles includes, for example,
any portion of the purchase price of an acquired
trade or business that is attributable to the existence of a favorable relationship with persons
providing distribution services (such as a favorable shelf or display space or a retail outlet), or
the existence of favorable supply contracts.
Don't include any amount required to be paid
for the goods or services to honor the terms of
the agreement or other relationship. Also, see
Assets That Aren't Section 197 Intangibles,
later.
Government-granted license, permit, etc.
This is any right granted by a governmental unit
or an agency or instrumentality of a governmental unit. For example, you must amortize the
capitalized costs of acquiring (including issuing
or renewing) a liquor license, a taxicab medallion or license, or a television or radio broadcasting license.

Assets That Aren't Section
197 Intangibles
The following assets aren't section 197 intangibles.
1. Any interest in a corporation, partnership,
trust, or estate.
2. Any interest under an existing futures contract, foreign currency contract, notional
principal contract, interest rate swap, or
similar financial contract.
3. Any interest in land.
4. Most computer software. (See Computer
software, later.)
5. Any of the following assets not acquired in
connection with the acquisition of a trade
or business or a substantial part of a trade
or business.
a. An interest in a film, sound recording,
videotape, book, or similar property.
b. A right to receive tangible property or
services under a contract or from a
governmental agency.
c. An interest in a patent or copyright.
d. Certain rights that have a fixed duration or amount. (See Rights of fixed
duration or amount, later.)

Covenant not to compete. Section 197 intangibles include a covenant not to compete (or
similar arrangement) entered into in connection
with the acquisition of an interest in a trade or
business, or a substantial portion of a trade or
business. An interest in a trade or business includes an interest in a partnership or a corporation engaged in a trade or business.
An arrangement that requires the former
owner to perform services (or to provide property or the use of property) isn't similar to a covenant not to compete to the extent the amount
paid under the arrangement represents reasonable compensation for those services or for that
property or its use.

6. An interest under either of the following.

Patents, copyrights, etc. This includes package design, computer software, and any interest in a film, sound recording, videotape, book,
or other similar property, except as discussed
later under Assets That Aren't Section 197 Intangibles.

Franchise, trademark, or trade name. A
franchise, trademark, or trade name is a section
197 intangible. You must amortize its purchase
or renewal costs, other than certain contingent
payments that you can deduct currently. For information on currently deductible contingent
payments, see chapter 11.

Customer-based intangible. This is the
composition of market, market share, and any
other value resulting from the future provision of
goods or services because of relationships with
customers in the ordinary course of business.
For example, you must amortize the part of the
purchase price of a business that is for the existence of the following intangibles.
• A customer base.
• A circulation base.
• An undeveloped market or market growth.
• Insurance in force.
• A mortgage servicing contract.
• An investment management contract.
• Any other relationship with customers involving the future provision of goods or
services.

Professional sports franchise. A franchise engaged in professional sports and any
intangible assets acquired in connection with
acquiring the franchise (including player contracts) is a section 197 intangible amortizable
over a 15-year period.

Intangible property that isn't amortizable under the rules for section 197 intangibles can be
depreciated if it meets certain requirements.
You must generally use the straight line method
over its useful life. For certain intangibles, the
depreciation period is specified in the law and
regulations. For example, the depreciation period for computer software that isn't a section
197 intangible is generally 36 months.

Business books and records, etc. This includes the intangible value of technical manuals, training manuals or programs, data files,
and accounting or inventory control systems. It
also includes the cost of customer lists; subscription lists; insurance expirations; patient or
client files; and lists of newspaper, magazine,
radio, and television advertisers.

Page 32

Chapter 8

Amortization

Contract for the use of, or a term interest in,
a section 197 intangible. Section 197 intangibles include any right under a license, contract, or other arrangement providing for the use
of any section 197 intangible. It also includes
any term interest in any section 197 intangible,
whether the interest is outright or in trust.

a. An existing lease or sublease of tangible property.
b. A debt that was in existence when the
interest was acquired.
7. A right to service residential mortgages
unless the right is acquired in connection
with the acquisition of a trade or business
or a substantial part of a trade or business.
8. Certain transaction costs incurred by parties to a corporate organization or reorganization in which any part of a gain or loss
isn't recognized.

For more information on depreciating intangible property, see Intangible Property under
What Method Can You Use To Depreciate Your
Property? in chapter 1 of Pub. 946.
Computer software. Section 197 intangibles
don’t include the following types of computer
software.
1. Software that meets all the following requirements.
a. It is, or has been, readily available for
purchase by the general public.
b. It is subject to a nonexclusive license.

c. It hasn't been substantially modified.
This requirement is considered met if
the cost of all modifications isn't more
than the greater of 25% of the price of
the publicly available unmodified software or $2,000.
2. Software that isn't acquired in connection
with the acquisition of a trade or business
or a substantial part of a trade or business.
Computer software defined. Computer
software includes all programs designed to
cause a computer to perform a desired function.
It also includes any database or similar item that
is in the public domain and is incidental to the
operation of qualifying software.
Rights of fixed duration or amount. Section
197 intangibles don't include any right under a
contract or from a governmental agency if the
right is acquired in the ordinary course of a
trade or business (or in an activity engaged in
for the production of income) but not as part of a
purchase of a trade or business and either:
• Has a fixed life of less than 15 years; or
• Is of a fixed amount that, except for the
rules for section 197 intangibles, would be
recovered under a method similar to the
unit-of-production method of cost recovery.
However, this doesn't apply to the following intangibles.
• Goodwill.
• Going concern value.
• A covenant not to compete.
• A franchise, trademark, or trade name.
• A customer-related information base, customer-based intangible, or similar item.

Safe Harbor for Creative
Property Costs
If you are engaged in the trade or business of
film production, you may be able to amortize the
creative property costs for properties not set for
production within 3 years of the first capitalized
transaction. You may amortize these costs ratably over a 15-year period beginning on the first
day of the second half of the tax year in which
you properly write off the costs for financial accounting purposes. If, during the 15-year period, you dispose of the creative property rights,
you must continue to amortize the costs over
the remainder of the 15-year period.
Creative property costs include costs paid or
incurred to acquire and develop screenplays,
scripts, story outlines, motion picture production
rights to books and plays, and other similar
properties for purposes of potential future film
development, production, and exploitation.
Amortize these costs using the rules of Revenue Procedure 2004-36. For more information,
see Revenue Procedure 2004-36, 2004-24
I.R.B.
1063,
available
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2004-24_IRB#RP-2004-36.

!

CAUTION

A change in the treatment of creative
property costs is a change in method of
accounting.

Anti-Churning Rules
Anti-churning rules prevent you from amortizing
most section 197 intangibles if the transaction
in which you acquired them didn't result in a significant change in ownership or use. These
rules apply to goodwill and going concern
value, and to any other section 197 intangible
that isn't otherwise depreciable or amortizable.
Under the anti-churning rules, you can't use
15-year amortization for the intangible if any of
the following conditions apply.
1. You or a related person (defined later)
held or used the intangible at any time
from July 25, 1991, through August 10,
1993.
2. You acquired the intangible from a person
who held it at any time during the period in
(1) and, as part of the transaction, the user
didn't change.
3. You granted the right to use the intangible
to a person (or a person related to that
person) who held or used it at any time
during the period in (1). This applies only if
the transaction in which you granted the
right and the transaction in which you acquired the intangible are part of a series of
related transactions. See Related person,
later, for more information.
Exceptions. The anti-churning rules don't apply in the following situations.
• You acquired the intangible from a decedent and its basis was stepped up to its fair
market value.
• The intangible was amortizable as a section 197 intangible by the seller or transferor you acquired it from. This exception
doesn't apply if the transaction in which
you acquired the intangible and the transaction in which the seller or transferor acquired it are part of a series of related
transactions.
• The gain-recognition exception, discussed
later, applies.
Related person. For purposes of the
anti-churning rules, the following are related
persons.
• An individual and his or her brothers, sisters, half brothers, half sisters, spouse, ancestors (parents, grandparents, etc.), and
lineal descendants (children, grandchildren, etc.).
• A corporation and an individual who owns,
directly or indirectly, more than 20% of the
value of the corporation's outstanding
stock.
• Two corporations that are members of the
same controlled group as defined in section 1563(a), except that “more than 20%”
is substituted for “at least 80%” in that definition and the determination is made without regard to subsections (a)(4) and (e)(3)
(C) of section 1563. For an exception, see
section 1.197-2(h)(6)(iv) of the regulations.
• A trust fiduciary and a corporation if more
than 20% of the value of the corporation's
outstanding stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by or for the trust or grantor of the
trust.

• The grantor and fiduciary, and the fiduciary
and beneficiary, of any trust.

• The fiduciaries of two different trusts, and

•
•

•

•

•

•

•

the fiduciaries and beneficiaries of two different trusts, if the same person is the
grantor of both trusts.
The executor and beneficiary of an estate.
A tax-exempt educational or charitable organization and a person who directly or indirectly controls the organization (or whose
family members control it).
A corporation and a partnership if the
same persons own more than 20% of the
value of the outstanding stock of the corporation and more than 20% of the capital
or profits interest in the partnership.
Two S corporations, and an S corporation
and a regular corporation, if the same persons own more than 20% of the value of
the outstanding stock of each corporation.
Two partnerships if the same persons own,
directly or indirectly, more than 20% of the
capital or profits interests in both partnerships.
A partnership and a person who owns, directly or indirectly, more than 20% of the
capital or profits interests in the partnership.
Two persons who are engaged in trades or
businesses under common control (as described in section 41(f)(1)).

When to determine relationship. Persons are treated as related if the relationship
existed at the following time.
• In the case of a single transaction, immediately before or immediately after the transaction in which the intangible was acquired.
• In the case of a series of related transactions (or a series of transactions that comprise a qualified stock purchase under section 338(d)(3)), immediately before the
earliest transaction or immediately after the
last transaction.
Ownership of stock. In determining
whether an individual directly or indirectly owns
any of the outstanding stock of a corporation,
the following rules apply.
Rule 1. Stock directly or indirectly owned
by or for a corporation, partnership, estate, or
trust is considered owned proportionately by or
for its shareholders, partners, or beneficiaries.
Rule 2. An individual is considered to own
the stock directly or indirectly owned by or for
his or her family. Family includes only brothers
and sisters, half brothers and half sisters,
spouse, ancestors, and lineal descendants.
Rule 3. An individual owning (other than by
applying Rule 2) any stock in a corporation is
considered to own the stock directly or indirectly owned by or for their partner.
Rule 4. For purposes of applying Rule 1, 2,
or 3, treat stock constructively owned by a person under Rule 1 as actually owned by that person. Don't treat stock constructively owned by
an individual under Rule 2 or 3 as owned by the
individual for reapplying Rule 2 or 3 to make another person the constructive owner of the
stock.

Chapter 8

Amortization

Page 33

Gain-recognition exception. This exception
to the anti-churning rules applies if the person
you acquired the intangible from (the transferor)
meets both of the following requirements.
• That person wouldn't be related to you (as
described under Related person, earlier) if
the 20% test for ownership of stock and
partnership interests were replaced by a
50% test.
• That person chose to recognize gain on
the disposition of the intangible and pay income tax on the gain at the highest tax
rate. See chapter 2 of Pub. 544 for information on making this choice.
If this exception applies, the anti-churning
rules apply only to the amount of your adjusted
basis in the intangible that is more than the gain
recognized by the transferor.
Notification. If the person you acquired
the intangible from chooses to recognize gain
under the rules for this exception, that person
must notify you in writing by the due date of the
return on which the choice is made.
Anti-abuse rule. You can't amortize any section 197 intangible acquired in a transaction for
which the principal purpose was either of the
following.
• To avoid the requirement that the intangible be acquired after August 10, 1993.
• To avoid any of the anti-churning rules.
More information. For more information
about the anti-churning rules, including additional rules for partnerships, see Regulations
section 1.197-2(h).

Incorrect Amount of
Amortization Deducted
If you later discover that you deducted an incorrect amount for amortization for a section 197
intangible in any year, you may be able to make
a correction for that year by filing an amended
return. See Amended Return next. If you aren't
allowed to make the correction on an amended
return, you can change your accounting method
to claim the correct amortization. See Changing
Your Accounting Method, later.

Amended Return
If you deducted an incorrect amount for amortization, you can file an amended return to correct the following.
• A mathematical error made in any year.
• A posting error made in any year.
• An amortization deduction for a section
197 intangible for which you haven't adopted a method of accounting.
When to file. If an amended return is allowed,
you must file it by the later of the following
dates.
• 3 years from the date you filed your original
return for the year in which you didn't deduct the correct amount. (A return filed
early is considered filed on the due date.)
• 2 years from the time you paid your tax for
that year.

Page 34

Chapter 8

Amortization

Changing Your Accounting Method
Generally, you must get IRS approval to change
your method of accounting. File Form 3115 to
request a change to a permissible method of
accounting for amortization.
The following are examples of a change in
method of accounting for amortization.
• A change in the amortization method, period of recovery, or convention of an amortizable asset.
• A change in the accounting for amortizable
assets from a single asset account to a
multiple asset account (pooling), or vice
versa.
• A change in the accounting for amortizable
assets from one type of multiple asset account to a different type of multiple asset
account.
Changes in amortization that aren't a
change in method of accounting include the following.
• A change in figuring amortization in the tax
year in which your use of the asset
changes.
• An adjustment in the useful life of an amortizable asset.
• Generally, the making of a late amortization election or the revocation of a timely
valid amortization election.
• Any change in the placed-in-service date
of an amortizable asset.
See Regulations section 1.446-1(e)(2)(ii)(a)
for more information and examples.
Automatic approval. In some instances, you
may be able to get automatic approval from the
IRS to change your method of accounting for
amortization. For a list of automatic accounting
method changes, see the Instructions for Form
3115. Also, see the Instructions for Form 3115
for more information on getting approval, automatic approval procedures, and a list of exceptions to the automatic approval process.

Disposition of Section 197
Intangibles
A section 197 intangible is treated as depreciable property used in your trade or business. If
you held the intangible for more than 1 year,
any gain on its disposition, up to the amount of
allowable amortization, is ordinary income (section 1245 gain). If multiple section 197 intangibles are disposed of in a single transaction or a
series of related transactions, treat all of the
section 197 intangibles as if they were a single
asset for purposes of determining the amount of
gain that is ordinary income. Any remaining
gain, or any loss, is a section 1231 gain or loss.
If you held the intangible 1 year or less, any
gain or loss on its disposition is an ordinary gain
or loss. For more information on ordinary or
capital gain or loss on business property, see
chapter 3 of Pub. 544.
Nondeductible loss. You can't deduct any
loss on the disposition or worthlessness of a
section 197 intangible that you acquired in the
same transaction (or series of related transac-

tions) as other section 197 intangibles you still
have. Instead, increase the adjusted basis of
each remaining amortizable section 197 intangible by a proportionate part of the nondeductible
loss. Figure the increase by multiplying the nondeductible loss on the disposition of the intangible by the following fraction.
• The numerator is the adjusted basis of
each remaining intangible on the date of
the disposition.
• The denominator is the total adjusted basis
of all remaining amortizable section 197 intangibles on the date of the disposition.
Covenant not to compete. A covenant not to
compete, or similar arrangement, isn't considered disposed of or worthless before you dispose of your entire interest in the trade or business for which you entered into the covenant.
Nonrecognition transfers. If you acquire a
section 197 intangible in a nonrecognition transfer, you are treated as the transferor with respect to the part of your adjusted basis in the intangible that isn't more than the transferor's
adjusted basis. You amortize this part of the adjusted basis over the intangible's remaining amortization period in the hands of the transferor.
Nonrecognition transfers include transfers to a
corporation, partnership contributions and distributions, like-kind exchanges, and involuntary
conversions.
In a like-kind exchange or involuntary conversion of a section 197 intangible, you must
continue to amortize the part of your adjusted
basis in the acquired intangible that isn't more
than your adjusted basis in the exchanged or
converted intangible over the remaining amortization period of the exchanged or converted intangible. Amortize over a new 15-year period
the part of your adjusted basis in the acquired
intangible that is more than your adjusted basis
in the exchanged or converted intangible.
Example. You own a section 197 intangible you have amortized for 4 full years. It has a
remaining unamortized basis of $30,000. You
exchange the asset plus $10,000 for a like-kind
section 197 intangible. The nonrecognition provisions of like-kind exchanges apply. You amortize $30,000 of the $40,000 adjusted basis of
the acquired intangible over the 11 years remaining in the original 15-year amortization period for the transferred asset. You amortize the
other $10,000 of adjusted basis over a new
15-year period. For more information, see Regulations section 1.197-2(g).

Reforestation Costs
You can elect to deduct a limited amount of reforestation costs paid or incurred during the tax
year. See Reforestation Costs in chapter 7. You
can elect to amortize the qualifying costs that
aren't deducted currently over an 84-month period. There is no limit on the amount of your amortization deduction for reforestation costs paid
or incurred during the tax year.

The election to amortize reforestation costs
incurred by a partnership, S corporation, or estate must be made by the partnership, corporation, or estate. A partner, shareholder, or
beneficiary can't make that election.
A partner's or shareholder's share of amortizable costs is figured under the general rules
for allocating items of income, loss, deduction,
etc., of a partnership or S corporation. The amortizable costs of an estate are divided between
the estate and the income beneficiary based on
the income of the estate allocable to each.
Qualifying costs. Reforestation costs are the
direct costs of planting or seeding for forestation or reforestation. Qualifying costs include
only those costs you must capitalize and include in the adjusted basis of the property.
They include costs for the following items.
• Site preparation.
• Seeds or seedlings.
• Labor.
• Tools.
• Depreciation on equipment used in planting and seeding.
Qualifying costs don't include costs for
which the government reimburses you under a
cost-sharing program, unless you include the
reimbursement in your income.
Qualified timber property. Qualified timber
property is property that contains trees in significant commercial quantities. It can be a woodlot
or other site that you own or lease. The property
qualifies only if it meets all of the following requirements.
• It is located in the United States.
• It is held for the growing and cutting of timber you will use in, or sell for use in, the
commercial production of timber products.
• It consists of at least one acre planted with
tree seedlings in the manner normally used
in forestation or reforestation.
Qualified timber property doesn't include
property on which you have planted shelter
belts or ornamental trees, such as Christmas
trees.
Amortization period. The 84-month amortization period starts on the first day of the first
month of the second half of the tax year you incur the costs (July 1 for a calendar year taxpayer), regardless of the month you actually incur the costs. You can claim amortization
deductions for no more than 6 months of the
first and last (eighth) tax years of the period.
Life tenant and remainderman. If one person holds the property for life with the remainder going to another person, the life tenant is
entitled to the full amortization for qualifying reforestation costs incurred by the life tenant. Any
remainder interest in the property is ignored for
amortization purposes.
Recapture. If you dispose of qualified timber
property within 10 years after the tax year you
incur qualifying reforestation expenses, report
any gain as ordinary income up to the amortization you took. See chapter 3 of Pub. 544 for
more information.

How to make the election. To elect to amortize qualifying reforestation costs, complete Part
VI of Form 4562 and attach a statement that
contains the following information.
• A description of the costs and the dates
you incurred them.
• A description of the type of timber being
grown and the purpose for which it is
grown.
Attach a separate statement for each property
for which you amortize reforestation costs.
Generally, you must make the election on a
timely filed return (including extensions) for the
tax year in which you incurred the costs. However, if you timely filed your return for the year
without making the election, you can still make
the election by filing an amended return within 6
months of the due date of the return (excluding
extensions). Attach Form 4562 and the statement to the amended return and write “Filed
pursuant to section 301.9100-2” on Form 4562.
File the amended return at the same address
you filed the original return.
Revoking the election. You must get IRS approval to revoke your election to amortize qualifying reforestation costs. Your application to revoke the election must include your name,
address, the years for which your election was
in effect, and your reason for revoking it. Provide your daytime telephone number (optional),
in case we need to contact you. You, or your
duly authorized representative, must sign the
application and file it at least 90 days before the
due date (without extensions) for filing your income tax return for the first tax year for which
your election is to end.
Send the application to:

Internal Revenue Service
Associate Chief Counsel
Passthroughs and Special Industries
CC:PSI:6
1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-5300
Washington, DC 20224

Geological and
Geophysical Costs
You can amortize the cost of geological and geophysical expenses paid or incurred in connection with oil and gas exploration or development
within the United States. These costs can be
amortized ratably over a 24-month period beginning on the midpoint of the tax year in which
the expenses were paid or incurred. For major
integrated oil companies (as defined in section
167(h)(5)), these costs must be amortized ratably over a 7-year period for costs paid or incurred after December 19, 2007 (a 5-year period
for costs paid or incurred after May 17, 2006,
and before December 20, 2007).
If you retire or abandon the property during
the amortization period, no amortization deduction is allowed in the year of retirement or abandonment.

Pollution Control
Facilities
You can elect to amortize the cost of a certified
pollution control facility over 60 months. However, see Atmospheric pollution control facilities, later, for an exception. The cost of a pollution control facility that isn't eligible for
amortization can be depreciated under the regular rules for depreciation. Also, you can claim a
special depreciation allowance on a certified
pollution control facility that is qualified property
even if you elect to amortize its cost. You must
reduce its cost (amortizable basis) by the
amount of any special allowance you claim.
See chapter 3 of Pub. 946.
A certified pollution control facility is a new
identifiable treatment facility used in connection
with a plant or other property in operation before 1976 to reduce or control water or atmospheric pollution or contamination. The facility
must do so by removing, changing, disposing,
storing, or preventing the creation or emission
of pollutants, contaminants, wastes, or heat.
The facility must be certified by state and federal certifying authorities.
The facility must not significantly increase
the output or capacity, extend the useful life, or
reduce the total operating costs of the plant or
other property. Also, it must not significantly
change the nature of the manufacturing or production process or facility.
The federal certifying authority won't certify
your property to the extent it appears you will
recover (over the property's useful life) all or
part of its cost from the profit based on its operation (such as through sales of recovered
wastes). The federal certifying authority will describe the nature of the potential cost recovery.
You must then reduce the amortizable basis of
the facility by this potential recovery.
New identifiable treatment facility. A
new identifiable treatment facility is tangible depreciable property that is identifiable as a treatment facility. It doesn't include a building and its
structural components unless the building is exclusively a treatment facility.
Atmospheric pollution control facilities.
Certain atmospheric pollution control facilities
can be amortized over 84 months. To qualify,
the following must apply.
• The facility must be acquired and placed in
service after April 11, 2005. If acquired, the
original use must begin with you after April
11, 2005.
• The facility must be used in connection
with an electric generation plant or other
property placed in operation after December 31, 1975, that is primarily coal fired.
• If you construct, reconstruct, or erect the
facility, only the basis attributable to the
construction, reconstruction, or erection
completed after April 11, 2005, qualifies.
Basis reduction for corporations. A corporation must reduce the amortizable basis of a
pollution control facility by 20% before figuring
the amortization deduction.
Chapter 8

Amortization

Page 35

More information. For more information on
the amortization of pollution control facilities,
see sections 169 and 291(c) and the related
regulations.

Research and
Experimental Costs
You must amortize specified research or experimental costs paid or incurred in tax years beginning after 2021.
You must amortize specified research or experimental costs ratably over a 5-year period
beginning with the midpoint of the tax year in
which the expenditures were paid or incurred.
Research or experimental expenditures attributable to foreign research conducted outside the
United States, Puerto Rico, or any possession
of the United States must be amortized ratably
over a 15-year period beginning with the midpoint of the tax year in which the expenditures
were paid or incurred. This includes any
amounts paid or incurred in connection with the
development of software which are not otherwise excluded expenditures under Internal Revenue Code section 174 and Treasury Regulations section 1.174-2. For a definition of
“research and experimental costs,” see chapter 7.
How to make the election. To change to the
required method of accounting for specified research or experimental expenditures in the first
tax year beginning after December 31, 2021, attach the statement in lieu of Form 3115 as described in section 7.02(5) of Revenue
Procedure 2023-11 to your income tax return.
You must also complete Part VI of Form 4562
and attach it to your income tax return. Generally, you must file the return by due date (including extensions). However, if you timely filed
your return for the year without attaching the
statement in lieu of Form 3115 or completed
Part VI of Form 4562, you can make the election by filing an amended return within 6 months
of the due date of the return (including extensions). Attach the required statement and completed Form 4562 to the amended return and
write “Filed pursuant to section 301.9100-2” on
Form 4562. File the amended return at the
same address you filed the original return.

115-97)—10 years. Amortization for these
costs should be reported on line 43 of
Form 4562.
How to make the election. To elect to amortize qualifying costs over the optional recovery
period, complete Part VI of Form 4562 and attach a statement containing the following information to your return for the tax year in which
the election begins.
• Your name, address, and taxpayer identification number.
• The type of cost and the specific amount of
the cost for which you are making the election.
Generally, the election must be made on a
timely filed return (including extensions) for the
tax year in which you incurred the costs. However, if you timely filed your return for the year
without making the election, you can still make
the election by filing an amended return within 6
months of the due date of the return (excluding
extensions). Attach Form 4562 to the amended
return and write “Filed pursuant to section
301.9100-2” on Form 4562. File the amended
return at the same address you filed the original
return.
Note. The amortization deduction and research and experimental expenditures under
former section 174(b) or the dollar amount of research and experimental expenditures for
which you elected to amortize over the 10-year
period under section 59(e) must be reported on
line 43 of Form 4562. Attach a statement that
shows (a) a description of the costs, (b) the
date amortization began, (c) the amortizable
amount, (d) the applicable Code section, (e) the
amortization period, (f) the accumulated amortization, and (g) the amortization amount for this
year.
Revoking the election. You must obtain consent from the IRS to revoke your section 59(e)
election. Your request to revoke the election
must be submitted to the IRS in the form of a
letter ruling before the end of the tax year in
which the optional recovery period ends. The
request must contain all of the information necessary to demonstrate the rare and unusual circumstances that would justify granting revocation. If the request for revocation is approved,
any unamortized costs are deductible in the
year the revocation is effective.

Optional Write-off of
Certain Tax Preferences
You can elect to amortize certain tax preference
items over an optional period beginning in the
tax year in which you incurred the costs. If you
make this election, there is no alternative minimum tax adjustment. The applicable costs and
the optional recovery periods are as follows.
• Circulation costs—3 years.
• Intangible drilling and development
costs—60 months.
• Mining exploration and development
costs—10 years.
• Research and experimental expenditures
paid or incurred in tax years beginning before January 1, 2022 (section 174(a) prior
to amendment by section 13206(a) of P.L.
Page 36

Chapter 9

Depletion

amended section 55 to impose a corporate alternative minimum tax. The amendment applies
to tax years beginning after 2022.
Excise tax to fund Black Lung Benefits. P.L.
117-169 also amended section 4121 to eliminate the reduction in tax on coal from mines located in the United States sold by the producer.
The amendment applies to sales in calendar
quarters beginning after August 17, 2022.

Reminders
Domestic production activities deduction
repealed. P.L. 115-97, December 22, 2017,
repealed section 199, which provided a deduction for income attributable to domestic production activities. The amendment applies to tax
years beginning after 2017.
Qualified business income deduction enacted. P.L. 115-97 also added section 199A,
which provides a deduction for qualified business income. The amendment applies to tax
years beginning after 2017. Section 199A does
not apply to tax years beginning after 2025.

Introduction
Depletion is the using up of natural resources
extracted from a mineral property by mining,
drilling, quarrying stone, or cutting timber. The
depletion deduction allows an owner or operator to account for the reduction of the mineral
property’s value or basis as a result of the extraction of the natural resource.
There are two ways of figuring depletion:
cost depletion and percentage depletion. For oil
and gas wells, mines, other natural deposits (including geothermal deposits), and mineral
property, you must generally use the method
that gives you the larger deduction. For standing timber, you must use cost depletion.

Topics

This chapter discusses:

• Who can claim depletion
• Mineral property
• Timber

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
544 Sales and Other Dispositions of
Assets
544

9.

551 Basis of Assets
551

Form (and Instructions)

Depletion

Schedule E (Form 1040) Supplemental
Income and Loss

What’s New

Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) Partner’s
Share of Income, Deductions,
Credits, etc.

Schedule E (Form 1040)

Schedule K-1 (Form 1065)

Corporate alternative minimum tax reinstated in 2023. P.L. 117-169, August 16, 2022,

Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S)
Shareholder's Share of Income,
Deductions, Credits, etc.
Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S)

6198 At-Risk Limitations
6198

8582 Passive Activity Loss Limitations
8582

T (Timber) Forest Activities Schedule

• The number of units of mineral sold during
the tax year.

can figure your cost depletion deduction by taking the following steps.

T (Timber)

See chapter 12 for information about getting
publications and forms.

Who Can Claim
Depletion?
If you have an economic interest in mineral
property or standing timber, you can take a deduction for depletion. More than one person
can have an economic interest in the same mineral deposit or timber. In the case of leased
property, the depletion deduction is divided between the lessor and the lessee.
You have an economic interest if both the
following apply.
• You have acquired by investment any interest in mineral deposits or standing timber.
• You have a legal right to income from the
extraction of the mineral or cutting of the
timber to which you must look for a return
of your capital investment.
A contractual relationship that allows you an
economic or monetary advantage from products of the mineral deposit or standing timber is
not, in itself, an economic interest.

!

CAUTION

Depletion is an item of tax preference
under the Alternative Minimum Tax
(AMT). See section 57.

Basis adjustment for depletion. You must
reduce the basis of your property by the depletion allowed or allowable, whichever is greater,
but not below zero.

Mineral Property
Mineral property includes oil and gas wells,
mines, and other natural deposits (including geothermal deposits). For this purpose, the term
“property” means each separate interest you
own in each mineral deposit in each separate
tract or parcel of land. You can treat two or
more separate interests as one property or as
separate properties. See section 614 and the
related regulations for rules on how to treat separate mineral interests.
There are two ways of figuring depletion on
mineral property.
• Cost depletion.
• Percentage depletion.
Generally, you must use the method that gives
you the larger deduction. However, unless you
are an independent producer or royalty owner,
you generally cannot use percentage depletion
for oil and gas wells. See Oil and Gas Wells,
later.

Cost Depletion
To figure cost depletion, you must first determine the following.
• The property's basis for depletion.
• The total recoverable units of mineral in the
property's natural deposit.

Basis for depletion. To figure the property's
basis for depletion, subtract all the following
from the property's adjusted basis.

Step

b. Deferred expenses (including deferred exploration and development
costs), and
c. Deductions other than depletion.
2. The residual value of land and improvements at the end of operations.
3. The cost or value of land acquired for purposes other than mineral production.
Adjusted basis. The adjusted basis of
your property is your original cost or other basis, plus certain additions and improvements,
and minus certain deductions such as depletion
allowed or allowable and casualty losses. Your
adjusted basis can never be less than zero. See
Pub. 551 for more information on adjusted basis.
Total recoverable units. The total recoverable units is the sum of the following.
• The number of units of mineral remaining
at the end of the year (including units recovered but not sold).
• The number of units of mineral sold during
the tax year (determined under your
method of accounting, as explained next).
You must estimate or determine recoverable
units (tons, pounds, ounces, barrels, thousands
of cubic feet, or other measure) of mineral products using the current industry method and the
most accurate and reliable information you can
obtain. You must include ores and minerals that
are developed, in sight, blocked out, or assured. You must also include probable or prospective ores or minerals that are believed to
exist based on good evidence. But see Elective
safe harbor for owners of oil and gas property,
later.
Number of units sold during the tax year.
You determine the number of units sold during
the tax year based on your method of accounting. Use the following table to make this determination.
IF you
use ...

THEN the units sold during
the tax year are ...

the cash method
of accounting

the units sold for which you
receive payment during the tax
year (regardless of the year of
sale).

an accrual
method of
accounting

the units sold based on your
inventories and method of
accounting for inventory.

The number of units sold during the tax year
does not include any for which depletion deductions were allowed or allowable in earlier years.
Figuring the cost depletion deduction.
Once you have figured your property's basis for
depletion, the total recoverable units, and the
number of units sold during the tax year, you

Result

Divide your property's
basis for depletion by
total recoverable units.

Depletion unit.

2

Multiply the depletion
unit by units sold
during the tax year.

Cost depletion
deduction.

1. Amounts recoverable through:
a. Depreciation deductions,

Action

1

You must keep accounts for the depletion of
each property and adjust these accounts each
year for units sold and depletion claimed.
Elective safe harbor for owners of oil and
gas property. Instead of using the method described earlier to determine the total recoverable units, you can use an elective safe harbor to
determine the property’s recoverable reserves
for purposes of figuring cost depletion. If you
choose the elective safe harbor, the total recoverable units equal 105% of a property's proved
reserves (both developed and undeveloped).
For details, see Revenue Procedure 2004-19
on page 563 of I.R.B. 2004-10, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2004-10_IRB#RP-2004-19.
To make the election, attach a statement to
your timely filed (including extensions) original
return for the first tax year for which the safe
harbor is elected. The statement must indicate
that you are electing the safe harbor provided
by Revenue Procedure 2004-19. The election, if
made, is effective for the tax year in which it is
made and all later years. It cannot be revoked
for the tax year in which it is elected, but it may
be revoked in a later year. Once revoked, it
cannot be re-elected for the next 5 years.

Percentage Depletion
To figure percentage depletion, you multiply a
certain percentage, specified for each mineral,
by your gross income from the property during
the tax year.
The rates to be used and other rules for oil
and gas wells are discussed later under Independent Producers and Royalty Owners and
under Natural Gas Wells. Rates and other rules
for percentage depletion of other specific minerals are found later under Mines and Geothermal
Deposits.
Gross income. When figuring percentage depletion, subtract from your gross income from
the property the following amounts.
• Any rents or royalties you paid or incurred
for the property.
• The part of any bonus you paid for a lease
on the property allocable to the product
sold (or that otherwise gives rise to gross
income) for the tax year.
A bonus payment includes amounts you paid as
a lessee to satisfy a production payment retained by the lessor.
Use the following fraction to figure the part
of the bonus you must subtract.
No. of units sold in the tax year
Recoverable units from the property

×

Bonus
Payments

For oil and gas wells and geothermal deposits, more information about the definition of
Chapter 9

Depletion

Page 37

gross income from the property is under Oil and
Gas Wells, later. For other property, more information about the definition of gross income
from the property is under Mines and Geothermal Deposits, later.
Taxable income limit. The percentage depletion deduction generally cannot be more than
50% (100% for oil and gas property) of your taxable income from the property figured without
the depletion deduction, and any deduction under section 199A.
Taxable income from the property means
gross income from the property minus all allowable deductions (except any deduction for depletion or qualified business income) attributable to mining processes, including limited
mining transportation. These deductible items
include, but are not limited to, the following.
• Operating expenses.
• Certain selling expenses.
• Administrative and financial overhead.
• Depreciation.
• Intangible drilling and development costs.
• Exploration and development expenditures.
• Deductible taxes (see chapter 5), but not
taxes that you capitalize or take as a credit.
• Losses sustained.
The following rules apply when figuring your
taxable income from the property for purposes
of the taxable income limit.
• Do not deduct any net operating loss
(NOL) deduction from the gross income
from the property.
• Corporations do not deduct charitable contributions from the gross income from the
property.
• If, during the year, you dispose of an item
of section 1245 property that was used in
connection with mineral property, reduce
any allowable deduction for mining expenses by the part of any gain you must report
as ordinary income that is allocable to the
mineral property. See Regulations section
1.613-5(b)(1) for information on how to figure the ordinary gain allocable to the property.

Oil and Gas Wells
You cannot claim percentage depletion for an
oil or gas well unless at least one of the following applies.
• You are either an independent producer or
a royalty owner.
• The well produces one of the following:
regulated natural gas, natural gas sold under a fixed contract, or natural gas from geopressured brine.
If you are an independent producer or royalty owner, see Independent Producers and
Royalty Owners next.
For information on the depletion deduction
for wells that produce regulated natural gas,
natural gas sold under a fixed contract, or natural gas from geopressured brine, see Natural
Gas Wells, later.

Independent Producers and
Royalty Owners
If you are an independent producer or royalty
owner, you figure percentage depletion using a
rate of 15% of the gross income from the property based on your average daily production of
domestic crude oil or domestic natural gas up to
your depletable oil or natural gas quantity. However, an independent producer or royalty owner
that also acts as a retailer or refiner may be excluded from claiming percentage depletion. For
information on figuring the deduction, see Figuring percentage depletion, later.
Refiners who cannot claim percentage depletion. You cannot claim percentage depletion if you or a related person refines crude oil
and you and the related person refined more
than 75,000 barrels on any day during the tax
year based on average (rather than actual) daily
refinery runs for the tax year. The average daily
refinery run is figured by dividing total refinery
runs for the tax year by the total number of days
in the tax year.
Related person. You and another person
are related persons if either of you holds a significant ownership interest in the other person
or if a third person holds a significant ownership
interest in both of you.
For example, a corporation, partnership, estate, or trust and anyone who holds a significant
ownership interest in it are related persons. A
partnership and a trust are related persons if
one person holds a significant ownership interest in each of them.
For purposes of the related person rules,
significant ownership interest means direct or
indirect ownership of 5% or more in any one of
the following.

• The value of the outstanding stock of a
corporation.

• The interest in the profits or capital of a
partnership.

• The beneficial interests in an estate or
trust.

Any interest owned by or for a corporation,
partnership, trust, or estate is considered to be
owned directly both by itself and proportionately
by its shareholders, partners, or beneficiaries.
Retailers who cannot claim percentage depletion. You cannot claim percentage depletion if both the following apply.
1. You sell oil or natural gas or their byproducts directly or through a related person in
any of the following situations.
a. Through a retail outlet operated by
you or a related person.
b. To any person who is required under
an agreement with you or a related
person to use a trademark, trade
name, or service mark or name
owned by you or a related person in
marketing or distributing oil, natural
gas, or their byproducts.
c. To any person given authority under
an agreement with you or a related

Page 38

Chapter 9

Depletion

person to occupy any retail outlet
owned, leased, or controlled by you or
a related person.
2. The combined gross receipts from sales
(not counting resales) of oil, natural gas, or
their byproducts by all retail outlets taken
into account in (1) are more than $5 million
for the tax year.
For the purpose of determining if this rule
applies, do not count the following.
• Bulk sales (sales in very large quantities)
of oil or natural gas to commercial or industrial users.
• Bulk sales of aviation fuels to the Department of Defense.
• Sales of oil or natural gas or their byproducts outside the United States if none of
your domestic production or that of a related person is exported during the tax year
or the prior tax year.
Related person. To determine if you and
another person are related persons, see Related person under Refiners who cannot claim
percentage depletion, earlier.
Sales through a related person. You are
considered to be selling oil or natural gas (or a
product derived therefrom) through a related
person if any sale by the related person produces gross income from which you may benefit
because of your direct or indirect ownership interest in the related person.
You are not considered to be selling oil or
natural gas (or a product derived therefrom)
through a related person who is a retailer if all of
the following apply.
• You do not own a significant ownership interest in the retailer.
• You sell your production to persons who
are not related to either you or the retailer.
• The retailer does not buy oil or natural gas
from your customers or persons related to
your customers.
• There are no arrangements for the retailer
to acquire oil or natural gas you produced
for resale or made available for purchase
by the retailer.
• Neither you nor the retailer knows of, or
controls, the final disposition of the oil or
natural gas you sold or the original source
of the petroleum products the retailer acquired for resale.
Transferees who cannot claim percentage
depletion. You cannot claim percentage depletion if you received your interest in a proven
oil or gas property by transfer after 1974 and
before October 12, 1990. For a definition of the
term “transfer,” see Regulations section
1.613A-7(n). For a definition of the term “interest in proven oil or gas property,” see Regulations section 1.613A-7(p).
Figuring percentage depletion. Generally,
as an independent producer or royalty owner,
you figure your percentage depletion by figuring
your average daily production of domestic oil or
gas and comparing it to your depletable oil or
gas quantity. If your average daily production
does not exceed your depletable oil or gas
quantity, you figure your percentage depletion
by multiplying the gross income from the oil or
gas property (as defined under Gross income

from the property, later) by 15% (0.15). If your
average daily production of domestic oil or gas
exceeds your depletable oil or gas quantity, you
must make an allocation as explained later under Average daily production.
In addition, there is a limit on the percentage
depletion deduction. See Taxable income limit,
later.
Average daily production. Figure your average daily production by dividing your total domestic production of oil or gas for the tax year
by the number of days in your tax year.
Partial interest. If you have a partial interest in the production from a property, figure
your share of the production by multiplying total
production from the property by your percentage participation in the revenues from the property.
You have a partial interest in the production
from a property if you have a net profits interest
in the property. To figure the share of production for your net profits interest, you must first
determine your percentage participation (as
measured by the net profits) in the gross revenue from the property. To figure this percentage, you divide the income you receive for your
net profits interest by the gross revenue from
the property. Then multiply the total production
from the property by your percentage participation to figure your share of the production.
Example. Riley owns oil property in which
Finley owns a 20% net profits interest. During
the year, the property produced 10,000 barrels
of oil, which Riley sold for $200,000. Riley had
expenses of $90,000 attributable to the property. The property generated a net profit of
$110,000 ($200,000 − $90,000). Finley received income of $22,000 ($110,000 × 20%
(0.20)) as Finley’s net profits interest.
The percentage participation that Finley determined was 11%, figured by dividing $22,000
(income received) by $200,000 (the gross revenue from the property). Finley’s share of the oil
production was determined to be 1,100 barrels
(10,000 barrels × 11% (0.11)).
Depletable oil or natural gas quantity. Generally, your depletable oil quantity is 1,000 barrels. Your depletable natural gas quantity is
6,000 cubic feet multiplied by the number of
barrels of your depletable oil quantity that you
choose to apply. If you claim depletion on both
oil and natural gas, you must reduce your depletable oil quantity (1,000 barrels) by the number of barrels you use to figure your depletable
natural gas quantity.
Example. You have both oil and natural
gas production. To figure your depletable natural gas quantity, you choose to apply 360 barrels of your 1,000-barrel depletable oil quantity.
Your depletable natural gas quantity is 2.16 million cubic feet of gas (360 × 6,000). You must
reduce your depletable oil quantity to 640 barrels (1,000 – 360).
If you have production from marginal wells,
see section 613A(c)(6) to figure your depletable
oil or natural gas quantity. See also Notice
2022-24, available at IRS.gov/irb/2022-21_IRB.
Business entities and family members.
You must allocate the depletable oil or gas

quantity among the following related persons in
proportion to each business entity's or family
member's production of domestic oil or gas for
the year.
• Corporations, trusts, and estates if 50% or
more of the beneficial interest is owned by
the same or related persons (considering
only persons that own at least 5% of the
beneficial interest).
• You and your spouse and minor children.
A related person is anyone mentioned in the related persons discussion under Nondeductible
loss in chapter 2 of Pub. 544, except that for
purposes of this allocation, item (1) in that discussion includes only an individual, spouse,
and their minor children.
Controlled group of corporations. Members of the same controlled group of corporations are treated as one taxpayer when figuring
the depletable oil or natural gas quantity. They
share the depletable quantity. A controlled
group of corporations is defined in section
1563(a), except that, for this purpose, the stock
ownership requirement is “more than 50%”
rather than “at least 80%,” as described in section 1563(a).
Gross income from the property. For purposes of percentage depletion, gross income from
the property (in the case of oil and gas wells) is
the amount you receive from the sale of the oil
or gas in the immediate vicinity of the well. If
you do not sell the oil or gas on the property but
manufacture or convert it into a refined product
before sale, or transport it before sale, the gross
income from the property is the representative
market or field price (RMFP) of the oil or gas
before conversion or transportation.
However, if you sold gas after you transported it from the premises for a price that is lower
than the RMFP, determine gross income from
the property for percentage depletion purposes
without regard to the RMFP.
Gross income from the property does not include lease bonuses, advance royalties, or
other amounts payable without regard to production from the property.
Average daily production exceeds depletable quantities. If your average daily production for the year is more than your depletable oil
or natural gas quantity, figure your allowance for
depletion for each domestic oil or natural gas
property as follows.
1. Figure your average daily production of oil
or natural gas for the year.
2. Figure your depletable oil or natural gas
quantity for the year.
3. Figure depletion for all oil or natural gas
produced from the property using a percentage depletion rate of 15% (0.15).
4. Multiply the result figured in (3) by a fraction, the numerator of which is the result
figured in (2) and the denominator of
which is the result figured in (1). This is
your depletion allowance for that property
for the year.
Taxable income limit. If you are an independent producer or royalty owner of oil and gas,

your deduction for percentage depletion is limited to the smaller of the following.
• 100% of your taxable income from the
property figured without the deduction for
depletion and the deduction for qualified
business income under section 199A. For
a definition of taxable income from the
property, see Taxable income limit, earlier,
under Mineral Property.
• 65% of your taxable income for the year
figured without the deduction for depletion,
the deduction for qualified business income under section 199A, any net operating loss carryback to the tax year under
section 172, any capital loss carryback to
the tax year under section 1212, and in the
case of a trust, any distribution to its beneficiary (with certain exceptions).
You can carry over to the following year any
amount you cannot deduct because of the
65%-of-taxable-income limit. Add it to your depletion allowance (before applying any limits)
for the following year.

Partnerships and S Corporations
Generally, each partner or S corporation shareholder, and not the partnership or S corporation, figures the depletion allowance separately.
Each partner or shareholder must decide
whether to use cost or percentage depletion. A
partner or shareholder using percentage depletion must apply the 65%-of-taxable-income limit
using its taxable income from all sources.
Partner's or shareholder's adjusted basis.
The partnership or S corporation must allocate
to each partner or shareholder its share of the
adjusted basis of each oil or gas property held
by the partnership or S corporation. The partnership or S corporation makes the allocation
as of the date it acquires the oil or gas property.
Each partner's share of the adjusted basis of
the oil or gas property is generally figured according to that partner's interest in partnership
capital. However, in some cases, it is figured
according to the partner's interest in partnership
income.
The partnership or S corporation adjusts the
partner's or shareholder's share of the adjusted
basis of the oil and gas property for any capital
expenditures made for the property and for any
change in partnership or S corporation interests.
Recordkeeping. Each partner or
shareholder must separately keep reRECORDS cords of its share of the adjusted basis
in each oil and gas property of the partnership
or S corporation. The partner or shareholder
must reduce its applicable adjusted basis by
the depletion allowed or allowable on the property each year. The partner or shareholder must
use that reduced adjusted basis to figure cost
depletion, or its gain or loss, if the partnership
or S corporation disposes of the property.
Reporting the deduction. Information that
you, as a partner or shareholder, use to figure
your depletion deduction on oil and gas properties is reported by the partnership or S corporation on Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) or on Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S). Deduct oil and gas
Chapter 9

Depletion

Page 39

depletion for your partnership or S corporation
interest on Schedule E (Form 1040). The depletion deducted on Schedule E is included in figuring income or loss from rental real estate or
royalty properties. The Instructions for Schedule E (Form 1040) explain where to report this
income or loss and whether you need to file either of the following forms.
• Form 6198.
• Form 8582.

Corporate deduction for iron ore and
coal. The percentage depletion deduction of a
corporation for iron ore and coal (including lignite) is reduced by 20% (0.20) of:
• The percentage depletion deduction for
the tax year (figured without this reduction), minus
• The adjusted basis of the property at the
close of the tax year (figured without the
depletion deduction for the tax year).

Natural Gas Wells

Gross income from the property. For property other than a geothermal deposit or an oil or
gas well, gross income from the property
means the gross income from mining. Mining
includes all of the following.
• Extracting ores or minerals from the
ground.
• Applying certain treatment processes described below.
• Transporting ores or minerals (generally,
not more than 50 miles) from the point of
extraction to the plants or mills in which the
treatment processes are applied.

You can use percentage depletion for a well
that produces natural gas that is either:
• Regulated natural gas,
• Sold under a fixed contract, or
• Produced from geopressured brine.
Regulated natural gas. Regulated natural gas
qualifies for a percentage depletion rate of 22%.
Regulated natural gas is domestic natural gas
produced and sold by the producer before July
1, 1976, and is regulated by the Federal Power
Commission. The price for regulated gas cannot be adjusted to reflect any increase in the
seller’s tax liability because of the repeal of percentage depletion for gas. Price increases after
February 1, 1975, are presumed to take the increase in tax liability into account unless demonstrated otherwise by clear and convincing
evidence.
Natural gas sold under a fixed contract.
Natural gas sold under a fixed contract qualifies
for a percentage depletion rate of 22%. Natural
gas sold under a fixed contract is domestic natural gas sold by the producer under a contract
that does not provide for a price increase to reflect any increase in the seller's tax liability because of the repeal of percentage depletion for
gas. The contract must have been in effect from
February 1, 1975, until the date of sale of the
gas. Price increases after February 1, 1975, are
presumed to take the increase in tax liability into
account unless demonstrated otherwise by
clear and convincing evidence.
Natural gas from geopressured brine.
Qualified natural gas from geopressured brine
is eligible for a percentage depletion rate of
10%. This is natural gas that meets both of the
following conditions.
• Produced from a well you began to drill after September 1978 and before 1984.
• Determined in accordance with section
503 of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978
to be produced from geopressured brine.

Mines and Geothermal
Deposits
Certain mines, oil and gas wells, and other natural deposits, including geothermal deposits,
qualify for percentage depletion.
Mines, oil and gas wells, and other natural
deposits. The percentage of your gross income from the property that you can deduct as
depletion depends on the type of deposit.
See section 613(b) for the percentage depletion rates.

Page 40

Chapter 9

Depletion

Excise tax. Gross income from mining includes the separately stated excise tax received by a mine operator from the sale of coal
to compensate the operator for the excise tax
the mine operator must pay to finance the benefits provided under the Black Lung Benefits
Revenue Act of 1977.
Extraction. Extracting ores or minerals
from the ground includes extraction by mine
owners or operators of ores or minerals from
the waste or residue of prior mining. This does
not apply to extraction from waste or residue of
prior mining by the purchaser of the waste or
residue or the purchaser of the rights to extract
ores or minerals from the waste or residue.
Treatment processes. The processes included as mining depend on the ore or mineral
mined. To qualify as mining, the treatment processes must be applied by the mine owner or
operator. For a listing of treatment processes
considered as mining, see section 613(c)(4)
and the related regulations.
Transportation of more than 50 miles. If
ore or mineral must be transported more than
50 miles to plants or mills to be treated because
of physical and other requirements, the additional authorized transportation may be considered mining and included in the calculation of
gross income from mining if authorized by the
IRS.
If you wish to include transportation of
more than 50 miles in the calculation of
gross income from mining, request an
advance ruling from the IRS. Include in the request the facts about the physical and other requirements that prevented the construction and
operation of the plant (in which mining processes are applied) within 50 miles of the point
of extraction. For more information about requesting an advance ruling, see Rev. Proc.
2022-1, available at IRS.gov/irb/2022-01_IRB,
modified by Rev. Proc. 2022-10, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2022-06_IRB, AND superseded by
Rev. Proc. 2023-1, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2023-01_IRB.

Disposal of coal or iron ore. You cannot take
a percentage depletion deduction for coal (including lignite) or iron ore mined in the United
States if both of the following apply.
• You disposed of it after holding it for more
than 1 year.
• You disposed of it under a contract under
which you retain an economic interest in
the coal or iron ore.
Treat any gain on the disposition as a capital
gain.
Disposal to related person. This rule
does not apply if you dispose of the coal or iron
ore to one of the following persons.
• A related person (as listed in chapter 2 of
Pub. 544).
• A person owned or controlled by the same
interests that own or control you.
Geothermal deposits. Geothermal deposits
located in the United States or its possessions
qualify for a percentage depletion rate of 15%.
A geothermal deposit is a geothermal reservoir
of natural heat stored in rocks or in a watery liquid or vapor (whether or not under pressure).
For percentage depletion purposes, a geothermal deposit is not considered a gas well.
Figure gross income from the property for a
geothermal steam well in the same way as for
oil and gas wells. See Gross income from the
property, earlier, under Oil and Gas Wells. Percentage depletion on a geothermal deposit cannot be more than 50% of your taxable income
from the property.

Lessor's Gross Income
In the case of leased property, the depletion deduction is divided between the lessor and the
lessee.
A lessor's gross income from the property
that qualifies for percentage depletion is usually
the total of the royalties received from the lease.
Bonuses and advanced royalties. Bonuses
and advanced royalties are payments a lessee
makes before production to a lessor for the
grant of rights in a lease or for minerals, gas, or
oil to be extracted from leased property. If you
are the lessor, your income from bonuses and
advanced royalties received is subject to an allowance for depletion, as explained in the next
two paragraphs.
Figuring cost depletion. To figure cost
depletion on a bonus, multiply your adjusted basis in the property by a fraction, the numerator
of which is the bonus and the denominator of
which is the total bonus and royalties expected
to be received. To figure cost depletion on advanced royalties, use the calculation explained
earlier under Cost Depletion, treating the number of units for which the advanced royalty is received as the number of units sold.
Figuring percentage depletion. In the
case of mines, wells, and other natural deposits
other than gas, oil, or geothermal property, you
may use the percentage rates discussed earlier
under Mines and Geothermal Deposits. Any bonus or advanced royalty payments are generally part of the gross income from the property
to which the rates are applied in making the

calculation. However, for oil, gas, or geothermal
property, gross income does not include lease
bonuses, advanced royalties, or other amounts
payable without regard to production from the
property.
Ending the lease. If you receive a bonus
on a lease that ends or is abandoned before
you derive any income from mineral extraction
or the cutting of timber, include in income the
depletion deduction you took on the bonus. Do
this for the year the lease ends or is abandoned. Also, increase your adjusted basis in the
property to restore the depletion deduction you
previously subtracted.
For advanced royalties, include in income
the depletion claimed on minerals or timber for
which the advanced royalties were paid, if the
minerals were not produced or timber not cut
before the lease ended. Include this amount in
income for the year the lease ends. Increase
your adjusted basis in the property by the
amount you include in income.
Delay rentals. These are payments for deferring development of the property. Since delay
rentals are ordinary rent, they are ordinary income to the payee that is not subject to depletion. These rentals can be avoided by either
abandoning the lease, beginning development
operations, or obtaining production.

Timber
You can figure timber depletion only by the cost
method. Percentage depletion does not apply
to timber. Base your depletion on your cost or
other basis in the timber. Your cost does not include the cost of land or any amounts recoverable through depreciation.
Depletion takes place when you cut standing timber. You can figure your depletion deduction when the quantity of cut timber is first
accurately measured in the process of exploitation.
Figuring cost depletion. To figure your cost
depletion allowance, you multiply the number of
timber units cut by your depletion unit.
Timber units. When you acquire timber
property, you must make an estimate of the
quantity of marketable timber reasonably
known, or on good evidence believed to exist
on the property. You measure the timber using
feet board measure (FBM), log scale, cords, or
other units. If you later determine that you have
more or less units of timber, you must adjust the
original estimate.
The term “timber property” means your economic interest in standing timber in each tract or
block representing a separate timber account.
Depletion unit. You figure your depletion
unit each year by taking the following steps.
1. Determine your cost or adjusted basis of
the timber on hand at the beginning of the
year. Adjusted basis is defined under Cost
Depletion in the discussion on Mineral
Property, earlier.
2. Add to the amount determined in (1) the
cost of any timber units acquired during
the year and any additions to capital.

3. Figure the number of timber units to take
into account by adding the number of timber units acquired during the year to the
number of timber units on hand in the account at the beginning of the year and
then adding (or subtracting) any correction
to the estimate of the number of timber
units remaining in the account.
4. Divide the result of (2) by the result of (3).
This is your depletion unit.
Example. You bought a timber tract for
$160,000 and the land was worth as much as
the timber. Your basis for the timber is $80,000.
Based on an estimated 1 million feet board
measure (FBM) or 1,000 “thousand board feet”
(MFBM) of standing timber, you figure your depletion unit to be $80 per MFBM ($80,000 ÷
1,000). If you cut 500 MFBM of timber, your depletion allowance would be $40,000 (500
MFBM × $80).
When to claim depletion. Claim your depletion allowance as a deduction in the year of sale
or other disposition of the products cut from the
timber, unless you choose to treat the cutting of
timber as a sale or exchange (explained below).
Include allowable depletion for timber products
not sold during the tax year the timber is cut as
a cost item in the closing inventory of timber
products for the year. The inventory is your basis for determining gain or loss in the tax year
you sell the timber products.
Example. The facts are the same as in the
previous example, except that you sold only
half of the timber products in the cutting year.
You would deduct $20,000 of the $40,000 depletion that year. You would add the remaining
$20,000 depletion to your closing inventory of
timber products.
Electing to treat the cutting of timber as a
sale or exchange. You can elect, under certain circumstances, to treat the cutting of timber
held for more than 1 year as a sale or exchange. You must make the election on your income tax return for the tax year to which it applies. The election can’t be made on an
amended return. If you make this election, subtract the adjusted basis for depletion from the
fair market value (FMV) of the timber on the first
day of the tax year in which you cut it to figure
the gain or loss on the cutting. You generally report the gain as long-term capital gain. The
FMV then becomes your basis for figuring your
ordinary gain or loss on the sale or other disposition of the products cut from the timber. For
more information, see Timber in chapter 2 of
Pub. 544.
You may revoke an election to treat the cutting of timber as a sale or exchange, without the
IRS's consent, by the due date (including extensions) for the return. The prior election (and revocation) is disregarded for purposes of making
a subsequent election. See Form T (Timber,
Forest Activities Schedule) for more information.
Form T (Timber, Forest Activities Schedule). Complete and attach Form T (Timber,
Forest Activities Schedule) to your income tax
return if you claim a deduction for timber depletion, choose to treat the cutting of timber as a

sale or exchange, or make an outright sale of
timber.

10.
Business Bad
Debts
Introduction
You have a bad debt if you cannot collect
money owed to you. A bad debt is either a business bad debt or a nonbusiness bad debt. This
chapter discusses only business bad debts.
Generally, a business bad debt is one that
comes from operating your trade or business.
You can deduct business bad debts on Schedule C (Form 1040) or your applicable business
income tax return.
All other bad debts are nonbusiness bad
debts and are deductible only as short-term
capital losses. For more information on nonbusiness bad debts, see Pub. 550.

Topics

This chapter discusses:

•
•
•
•

Definition of business bad debt
When a debt becomes worthless
How to claim a business bad debt
Recovery of a bad debt

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
525 Taxable and Nontaxable Income
525

536 Net Operating Losses (NOLs) for
Individuals, Estates, and Trusts
536

544 Sales and Other Dispositions of
Assets
544

550 Investment Income and Expenses
550

556 Examination of Returns, Appeal
Rights, and Claims for Refund
556

Form (and Instructions)
Schedule C (Form 1040) Profit or Loss
From Business
Schedule C (Form 1040)

1040-X Amended U.S. Individual Income
Tax Return
1040-X

1045 Application for Tentative Refund
1045

1065 U.S. Return of Partnership Income
1065

1065-X Amended Return or
Administrative Adjustment Request
(AAR)
1065-X

1120-S U.S. Income Tax Return for an S
Corporation
1120-S

Chapter 10

Business Bad Debts

Page 41

1120-X Amended U.S. Corporation
Income Tax Return
1120-X

1139 Corporation Application for
Tentative Refund
1139

3115 Application for Change in
Accounting Method
3115

See chapter 12 for information about getting
publications and forms.

Definition of Business
Bad Debt
A business bad debt is a loss from the worthlessness of a debt that was either:
• Created or acquired in your trade or business, or
• Closely related to your trade or business
when it became partly or totally worthless.
A debt is closely related to your trade or
business if your primary motive for incurring the
debt is business related. Bad debts of a corporation (other than an S corporation) are always
business bad debts.
Credit sales. Business bad debts are mainly
the result of credit sales to customers. Goods
that have been sold, but not yet paid for, and
services that have been performed, but not yet
paid for, are recorded in your books as either
accounts receivable or notes receivable. After a
reasonable period of time, if you have tried to
collect the amount due, but are unable to do so,
the uncollectible part of the receivables becomes a business bad debt.
Accounts or notes receivable valued at fair
market value (FMV) when received are deductible only at that value, even though the FMV
may be less than the face value. If you purchased an account receivable for less than its
face value, and the receivable subsequently becomes worthless, the most you’re allowed to
deduct is the amount you paid to acquire it.
You can claim a business bad debt deduction only if the amount owed to you
CAUTION was previously included in gross income. This applies to amounts owed to you
from all sources of taxable income, including
sales, services, rents, and interest.

!

Accrual method. If you use an accrual
method of accounting, you generally report income as you earn it. You can only claim a bad
debt deduction for an uncollectible receivable if
you have previously included the uncollectible
amount in income.
If you qualify, you can use the nonaccrual-experience method of accounting, discussed later. Under this method, you don’t have
to accrue income that, based on your experience, you don’t expect to collect.
Cash method. If you use the cash method
of accounting, you generally report income
when you receive payment. You can’t claim a
bad debt deduction for amounts owed to you
because you never included those amounts in
income. For example, a cash basis architect
can’t claim a bad debt deduction if a client fails
to pay the bill because the architect's fee was
never included in income.
Page 42

Chapter 10

Business Bad Debts

Debts from a former business. If you sell
your business but retain its receivables, these
debts are business debts because they arose
out of your trade or business. If any of these receivables subsequently become worthless, the
loss is still a business bad debt.
Debt acquired from a decedent. The
character of a loss from debts of a business acquired from a decedent is determined in the
same way as debts acquired on the purchase of
a business. The executor of the decedent's estate treats any loss from the debts as a business bad debt if the debts were closely related
to the decedent's trade or business when they
became worthless. Otherwise, a loss from
these debts becomes a nonbusiness bad debt
for the decedent's estate.
Liquidation. If you liquidate your business
and some of the accounts receivable that you
retain become worthless, they’re treated as
business bad debts.

Types of Business Bad
Debts
Business bad debts may result from the following.
Loans to clients and suppliers. If you loan
money to a client, supplier, employee, or distributor for a business reason and you’re unable to
collect the loan after attempting to do so, you
have a business bad debt.
Debts owed by political parties. If a political
party (or other organization that accepts contributions or spends money to influence elections)
owes you money and the debt becomes worthless, you can claim a bad debt deduction only if
all of the following requirements are met.
1. You use an accrual method of accounting.
2. The debt arose from the sale of goods or
services in the ordinary course of your
trade or business.
3. More than 30% of your receivables accrued in the year of the sale were from
sales to political parties.
4. You made substantial and continuing efforts to collect on the debt.
Loan or capital contribution. You cannot
claim a bad debt deduction for a loan you made
to a corporation if, based on the facts and circumstances, the loan is actually a contribution
to capital.
Debts of an insolvent partner. If your business partnership breaks up and one of your former partners becomes insolvent, you may have
to pay more than your pro rata share of the partnership's debts. If you pay any part of the insolvent partner's share of the debts, you can claim
a bad debt deduction for the amount you paid
that is attributable to the insolvent partner's
share.
Business loan guarantee. If you guarantee a
debt that subsequently becomes worthless, the

debt can qualify as a business bad debt if all of
the following requirements are met.
• You made the guarantee in the course of
your trade or business.
• You have a legal duty to pay the debt.
• You made the guarantee before the debt
became worthless. You meet this requirement if you reasonably expected you
wouldn’t have to pay the debt without full
reimbursement from the borrower.
• You received reasonable consideration for
making the guarantee. You meet this requirement if you made the guarantee according to normal business practice or for
a good faith business purpose.
Example. Jane Zayne owns the Zayne
Dress Company. She guaranteed payment of a
$20,000 note for Elegant Fashions, a dress outlet. Elegant Fashions is one of Zayne's largest
clients. Elegant Fashions later defaulted on the
loan. As a result, Ms. Zayne paid the remaining
balance of the loan in full to the bank.
She can claim a business bad debt deduction only for the amount she paid because her
guarantee was made in the course of her trade
or business for a good faith business purpose.
She was motivated by the desire to retain one
of her better clients and keep a sales outlet.
Deductible in the year paid. If you make
a payment on a loan you guaranteed, you can
deduct it in the year paid, unless you have
rights against the borrower.
Rights against a borrower. When you
make payment on a loan you guaranteed, you
may have the right to take the place of the
lender. The debt is then owed to you. If you
have this right, or some other right to demand
payment from the borrower, you can’t claim a
bad debt deduction until these rights become
partly or totally worthless.
Joint debtor. If two or more debtors jointly
owe you money, your inability to collect from
one doesn’t enable you to deduct a proportionate amount as a bad debt.
Sale of mortgaged property. If mortgaged or
pledged property is sold for less than the debt,
the unpaid, uncollectible balance of the debt is
a bad debt.

When a Debt Becomes
Worthless
A debt becomes worthless when there is no
longer any chance the amount owed will be
paid. This may occur on the date the debt is
due or prior to that date.
To demonstrate worthlessness, you must
only show that you have taken reasonable
steps to collect the debt but were unable to do
so. It isn’t necessary to go to court if you can
show that a judgment from the court would be
uncollectible. Bankruptcy of your debtor is generally good evidence of the worthlessness of at
least a part of an unsecured and unpreferred
debt.

Property received for debt. If you receive
property in partial settlement of a debt, reduce
the debt by the property's FMV, which becomes
the property's basis. You can deduct the remaining debt as a bad debt if and when it becomes worthless.
If you later sell the property for more than its
basis, any gain on the sale is due to the appreciation of the property. It isn’t a recovery of a
bad debt. For information on the sale of an asset, see Pub. 544.

How To Claim a
Business Bad Debt
There are two methods to claim a business bad
debt.
• The specific charge-off method.
• The nonaccrual-experience method.
Generally, you must use the specific charge-off
method. However, you may use the nonaccrual-experience method if you meet the requirements discussed later under Nonaccrual-Experience Method.

Specific Charge-off Method
If you use the specific charge-off method, you
can deduct specific business bad debts that become either partly or totally worthless during the
tax year. However, with respect to partly worthless bad debts, your deduction is limited to the
amount you charged off on your books during
the year.
Partly worthless debts. You can deduct specific bad debts that become partly uncollectible
during the tax year. Your tax deduction is limited to the amount you charge off on your books
during the year. You don’t have to charge off
and deduct your partly worthless debts annually. You can delay the charge-off until a later
year. However, you can’t deduct any part of a
debt after the year it becomes totally worthless.
Significantly modified debt. An exception to the charge-off rule exists for debt that
has been significantly modified and on which
the holder recognized gain. For more information, see Regulations section 1.166-3(a)(3).
Deduction disallowed. Generally, you
can claim a partial bad debt deduction only in
the year you make the charge-off on your
books. If, under audit, the IRS doesn’t allow
your deduction and the debt becomes partly
worthless in a later tax year, you can deduct the
amount you charged off in that year plus the
disallowed amount charged off in the earlier
year. The charge-off in the earlier year, unless
reversed on your books, fulfills the charge-off
requirement for the later year.
Totally worthless debts. If a debt becomes
totally worthless in the current tax year, you can
deduct the entire amount minus any amount deducted in an earlier tax year when the debt was
only partly worthless.
You don’t have to make an actual charge-off
on your books to claim a bad debt deduction for
a totally worthless debt. However, you may
want to do so. If you don’t and the IRS later

rules the debt is only partly worthless, you will
not be allowed a deduction for the debt in that
tax year because a deduction of a partly worthless bad debt is limited to the amount actually
charged off. See Partly worthless debts, earlier.
Filing a claim for refund. If you didn’t deduct
a bad debt on your original return for the year it
became worthless, you can file a claim for a
credit or refund. If the bad debt was totally
worthless, you must file the claim by the later of
the following dates.
• 7 years from the date your original return
was due (not including extensions).
• 2 years from the date you paid the tax.
If the claim is for a partly worthless bad debt,
you must file the claim by the later of the following dates.
• 3 years from the date you filed your original
return.
• 2 years from the date you paid the tax.
You may have longer to file the claim if you
were unable to manage your financial affairs
due to a physical or mental impairment. Such
an impairment requires proof of existence.
For details and more information about filing
a claim, see Pub. 556. Use one of the following
forms to file a claim. For more information, see
the instructions for the applicable form.

Table 10-1. Forms Used To File a
Claim

amount deducted that did not reduce your tax.
Report the recovery as “Other income” on the
appropriate business form or schedule.
See Recoveries in Pub. 525 for more information.
NOL carryover. If a bad debt deduction increases an NOL carryover that has not expired
before the beginning of the tax year in which the
recovery takes place, you treat the deduction as
having reduced your tax. A bad debt deduction
that contributes to an NOL helps lower taxes in
the year to which you carry the NOL. For more
information about NOLs for individuals, see
Pub. 536. Also, see the Instructions for Form
1045, and the Instructions for Form 1139.

11.
Other Expenses
What's New

sole proprietor
or farmer

Form 1040-X.

corporation

Form 1120-X.

Standard mileage rate. For tax year 2022, the
standard mileage rate for the cost of operating
your car, van, pickup, or panel truck for business use is:
• 58.5 cents per mile from January 1, 2022,
through June 30, 2022; and
• 62.5 cents per mile from July 1, 2022,
through December 31, 2022.

S corporation

Form 1120-S and check
box H(4).

For more information, see Car and truck expenses under Miscellaneous Expenses, later.

partnership

Form 1065-X if filing on
paper or
Form 1065 and check box
G(5) if filing electronically.

IF you filed as
a...

THEN file...

Nonaccrual-Experience
Method
Generally, a person using accrual accounting
isn’t required to accrue a service-provided receivable that experience shows won't be collected if:
• The service provided is health, law, engineering, architecture, accounting, actuarial
science, performing arts, or consulting; or
• The person's average annual gross receipts for all previous 3‐tax‐year periods
don’t exceed $27 million.
See section 448 for details and exceptions.

Recovery of a Bad Debt
If you claim a deduction for a bad debt on your
income tax return and later recover (collect) all
or part of it, you may have to include all or part
of the recovery in gross income. The amount
you include is limited to the amount you actually
deducted. However, you can exclude the

Reminders
No miscellaneous itemized deductions allowed. You can no longer claim any miscellaneous itemized deductions, including the deduction for repayments (claim of right).
Miscellaneous itemized deductions are those
deductions that would have been subject to the
2%-of-adjusted-gross-income limitation.
Qualified business income deduction. For
tax years beginning after 2017, individual taxpayers and some trusts and estates may be entitled to a deduction of up to 20% of their qualified business income (QBI) from a trade or
business, including income from a pass-through
entity, but not from a C corporation, plus 20% of
qualified real estate investment trust (REIT) dividends and qualified publicly traded partnership
(PTP) income. The deduction is subject to multiple limitations, such as the type of trade or
business, the taxpayer’s taxable income, the
amount of W-2 wages paid in the trade or business, and the unadjusted basis immediately after acquisition (UBIA) of qualified property held
by the trade or business. The deduction can be
taken in addition to the standard or itemized deductions. See the Instructions for Form 8995
and the Instructions for Form 8995-A for more
information.
Chapter 11

Other Expenses

Page 43

Travel, meals, and entertainment. In general, entertainment expenses are no longer deductible. For more information on travel and
non-entertainment-related meals, including deductibility, see Pub. 463.

8995 Qualified Business Income
Deduction Simplified Computation

Certain payments made in sexual harassment or sexual abuse cases. For amounts
paid or incurred after December 22, 2017, new
section 162(q) provides that no deduction is allowed under section 162 for any settlement or
payment related to sexual harassment or sexual
abuse if it is subject to a nondisclosure agreement. In addition, attorney’s fees related to such
a settlement or payment aren’t allowed as a deduction.

W-2 Wage and Tax Statement

Introduction
This chapter covers business expenses that
may not have been explained to you, as a business owner, in previous chapters of this publication.

Topics

This chapter discusses:

• Travel and non-entertainment-related
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

meals
Bribes and kickbacks
Charitable contributions
Education expenses
Lobbying expenses
Penalties and fines
Repayments (claim of right)
Other miscellaneous expenses

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
15-B Employer's Tax Guide to Fringe
Benefits
15-B

463 Travel, Gift, and Car Expenses
463

526 Charitable Contributions
526

529 Miscellaneous Deductions
529

544 Sales and Other Dispositions of
Assets
544

946 How To Depreciate Property
946

970 Tax Benefits for Education
970

Form (and Instructions)
Schedule A (Form 1040) Itemized
Deductions
Schedule A (Form 1040)

Schedule C (Form 1040) Profit or Loss
From Business
Schedule C (Form 1040)

Schedule F (Form 1040) Profit or Loss
From Farming

8995

8995-A Qualified Business Income
Deduction
8995-A

W-2

See chapter 12 for information about getting
publications and forms.

Reimbursement of
Travel and
Non-Entertainment-Relat
ed Meals
The following discussion explains how to handle any reimbursements or allowances you may
provide to your employees under a reimbursement or allowance arrangement for travel and
non-entertainment-related meals expenses. If
you are self-employed and report your income
and expenses on Schedule C (Form 1040), see
Pub. 463.
To be deductible for tax purposes, expenses incurred for travel and non-entertainment-related meals must be ordinary and necessary expenses incurred while carrying on
your trade or business. For more information on
travel and non-entertainment-related meals, including deductibility, see Pub. 463.

Reimbursements
A “reimbursement or allowance arrangement”
provides for payment of advances, reimbursements, and allowances for travel and non-entertainment-related meals expenses incurred by
your employees during the ordinary course of
business. If the expenses are substantiated,
you can deduct the allowable amount on your
tax return. Because of differences between accounting methods and tax law, the amount you
can deduct for tax purposes may not be the
same as the amount you deduct on your business books and records. For example, you can
deduct 100% of the cost of meals on your business books and records. However, only 50% of
these costs are allowed by law as a tax deduction.
How you deduct a business expense under
a reimbursement or allowance arrangement depends on whether you have:
• An accountable plan, or
• A nonaccountable plan.
If you reimburse these expenses under an accountable plan, deduct them as travel and
non-entertainment-related meals expenses.

Schedule F (Form 1040)

1099-MISC Miscellaneous Information
1099-MISC

1120 U.S. Corporation Income Tax
Return
1120

4562 Depreciation and Amortization
4562

8949 Sales and Other Dispositions of
Capital Assets
8949

Page 44

Chapter 11

Other Expenses

If you reimburse these expenses under a
nonaccountable plan, report the reimbursements as wages on Form W-2, and deduct
them as wages on the appropriate line of your
tax return. If you make a single payment to your
employees and it includes both wages and an
expense reimbursement, you must specify the
amount of the reimbursement and report it accordingly. See Table 11-1.

Accountable Plans
An accountable plan requires your employees
to meet all of the following requirements. Each
employee must:
1. Have paid or incurred deductible expenses while performing services as your employee,
2. Adequately account to you for these expenses within a reasonable period of time,
and
3. Return any excess reimbursement or allowance within a reasonable period of
time.
An arrangement under which you advance
money to employees is treated as meeting (3)
above only if the following requirements are
also met.
• The advance is reasonably calculated not
to exceed the amount of anticipated expenses.
• You make the advance within a reasonable
period of time of your employee paying or
incurring the expense.
If any expenses reimbursed under this arrangement aren’t substantiated, or an excess
reimbursement isn’t returned within a reasonable period of time by an employee, you can’t
treat these expenses as reimbursed under an
accountable plan. Instead, treat the reimbursed
expenses as paid under a nonaccountable
plan, discussed later.
Adequate accounting. Your employees must
adequately account to you for their travel and
non-entertainment-related meals expenses.
They must give you documentary evidence of
their travel, mileage, and other employee business expenses. This evidence should include
items such as receipts, along with either a
statement of expenses, an account book, a day
planner, or similar record in which the employee
entered each expense at or near the time the
expense was incurred.
Excess reimbursement or allowance. An
excess reimbursement or allowance is any
amount you pay to an employee that is more
than the business-related expenses for which
the employee adequately accounted. The employee must return any excess reimbursement
or other expense allowance to you within a reasonable period of time.
Reasonable period of time. A reasonable
period of time depends on the facts and circumstances. Generally, actions that take place
within the times specified in the following list will
be treated as taking place within a reasonable
period of time.
1. You give an advance within 30 days of the
time the employee pays or incurs the expense.
2. Your employees adequately account for
their expenses within 60 days after the expenses were paid or incurred.
3. Your employees return any excess reimbursement within 120 days after the expenses were paid or incurred.

4. You give a periodic statement (at least
quarterly) to your employees that asks
them to either return or adequately account for outstanding advances and they
comply within 120 days of the date of the
statement.
How to deduct. You can claim a deduction for
travel and non-entertainment-related meals expenses if you reimburse your employees for
these expenses under an accountable plan.
Generally, the amount you can deduct for
non-entertainment-related meals is subject to a
50% limit, discussed later. If you are a sole proprietor, or are filing as a single member limited
liability company, deduct the travel reimbursement on line 24a and the deductible part of the
non-entertainment-related meals reimbursement on line 24b of Schedule C (Form 1040).
If you are filing an income tax return for a
corporation, include the reimbursement on the
Other deductions line of Form 1120. If you are
filing any other business income tax return,
such as a partnership or S corporation return,
deduct the reimbursement on the appropriate
line of the return as provided in the instructions
for that return.

Per Diem and Car Allowances
You can reimburse your employees under an
accountable plan based on travel days, miles,
or some other fixed allowance. In these cases,
your employee is considered to have accounted
to you for the amount of the expense that
doesn’t exceed the rates established by the
federal government. Your employee must actually substantiate to you the other elements of
the expense, such as time, place, and business
purpose.
Federal rate. The federal rate can be figured
using any one of the following methods.
1. For car expenses:
a. The standard mileage rate.
b. A fixed and variable rate (FAVR).
2. For per diem amounts:
a. The regular federal per diem rate.
b. The standard meal allowance.
c. The high-low rate.
Car allowance. Your employee is considered
to have accounted to you for car expenses that
don’t exceed the standard mileage rate. For tax
year 2022, the standard business mileage rate
is:
• 58.5 cents per mile for January 1, 2022,
through June 30, 2022; and

• 62.5 cents per mile for July 1, 2022,
through December 31, 2022.

To find the standard mileage rate for 2023,
go to IRS.gov/Tax-Professionals/StandardMileage-Rates.
You can choose to reimburse your employees using an FAVR allowance. This is an allowance that includes a combination of payments
covering fixed and variable costs, such as a
cents-per-mile rate to cover your employees'
variable operating costs (such as gas, oil, etc.)
plus a flat amount to cover your employees'

Table 11-1. Reporting Reimbursements
IF the type of reimbursement (or other expense
allowance) arrangement is under

THEN the employer reports on Form W-2

An accountable plan with:
Actual expense reimbursement:
Adequate accounting made and excess returned

No amount.

Actual expense reimbursement:
Adequate accounting and return of excess both required
but excess not returned

The excess amount as wages in box 1.

Per diem or mileage allowance up to the federal rate:
Adequate accounting made and excess returned

No amount.

Per diem or mileage allowance up to the federal rate:
Adequate accounting and return of excess both required
but excess not returned

The excess amount as wages in box 1. The amount up to
the federal rate is reported only in box 12—it isn’t
reported in box 1.

Per diem or mileage allowance exceeds the federal rate:
Adequate accounting made up to the federal rate only and
excess not returned

The excess amount as wages in box 1. The amount up to
the federal rate is reported only in box 12—it isn’t
reported in box 1.

A nonaccountable plan with:
Either adequate accounting or return of excess, or both, not
required by plan

The entire amount as wages in box 1.

No reimbursement plan

The entire amount as wages in box 1.

fixed costs (such as depreciation, insurance,
etc.). For information on using an FAVR allowance, see Revenue Procedure 2019-46, available at IRS.gov/irb/2019-49_IRB#RP-2019-46,
and Notice 2022-03, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2022-02_IRB.

High-low method. This is a simplified
method of figuring the federal per diem rate for
travel within the continental United States. It
eliminates the need to keep a current list of the
per diem rate for each city.
Under the high-low method, the per diem
amount for travel during January through September of 2022 is $296 ($74 for M&IE) for certain high-cost locations. All other areas have a
per diem amount of $202 ($64 for M&IE). The
high-cost localities eligible for the higher per
diem amount under the high-low method are listed in Notice 2021-52, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2021-38_IRB#NOT-2021-52.
Effective October 1, 2023, the per diem rate
for high-cost locations will increase to $297
($74 for M&IE). The rate for all other locations
will increase to $204 ($64 for M&IE). For October, November, and December 2023, you can
either continue to use the rates described in the
preceding paragraph or change to the new
rates. However, you must use the same rate for
all employees reimbursed under the high-low
method.
For more information about the high-low
method, see Notice 2022-44, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2022-41_IRB#NOT-2022-44. See
GSA.gov/perdiem for the current per diem rates
for all locations.

Per diem allowance. If your employee actually substantiates to you the other elements
(discussed earlier) of the expenses reimbursed
using the per diem allowance, how you report
and deduct the allowance depends on whether
the allowance is for lodging and meal expenses
or for meal expenses only and whether the allowance is more than the federal rate.
Regular federal per diem rate. The regular federal per diem rate is the highest amount
the federal government will pay to its employees while away from home on travel. It has the
following two components.
1. Lodging expense.
2. Meal and incidental expenses (M&IE).
The rates are different for different locations.
See GSA.gov/perdiem for the per diem rates in
the continental United States.
Standard meal allowance. The federal
rate for M&IE is the standard meal allowance.
You can pay only an M&IE allowance to employees who travel away from home if:
• You pay the employee for actual expenses
for lodging based on receipts submitted to
you,
• You provide for the lodging,
• You pay for the actual expense of the lodging directly to the provider,
• You don’t have a reasonable belief that
lodging expenses were incurred by the
employee, or
• The allowance is figured on a basis similar
to that used in figuring the employee's wages (that is, number of hours worked or
miles traveled).
Per diem rates online. You can access
per diem rates at GSA.gov/perdiem.

Reporting per diem and car allowances.
The following discussion explains how to report
per diem and car allowances. The manner in
which you report them depends on how the allowance compares to the federal rate. See Table 11-1.
Allowance less than or equal to the federal rate. If your allowance for the employee is
less than or equal to the appropriate federal
rate, that allowance isn’t included as part of the
employee's pay in box 1 of the employee's
Form W-2. Deduct the allowance as travel expenses (including meals that may be subject to
the 50% limit, discussed later). See How to deduct under Accountable Plans, earlier.

Chapter 11

Other Expenses

Page 45

Allowance more than the federal rate. If
your employee's allowance is more than the appropriate federal rate, you must report the allowance as two separate items.
Include the allowance amount up to the federal rate in box 12 (code L) of the employee's
Form W-2. Deduct it as travel expenses (explained above). This part of the allowance is
treated as reimbursed under an accountable
plan.
Include the amount that is more than the
federal rate in box 1 (and in boxes 3 and 5 if
they apply) of the employee's Form W-2. Deduct it as wages subject to income tax withholding, social security, Medicare, and federal unemployment taxes. This part of the allowance is
treated as reimbursed under a nonaccountable
plan (explained later) under Nonaccountable
Plans.

Meals
Under an accountable plan, you can generally
deduct only 50% of any otherwise deductible
business-related meal expenses you reimburse
your employees. The deduction limit applies
even if you reimburse them for 100% of the expenses.
Application of the 50% limit. The 50% deduction limit applies to reimbursements you
make to your employees for expenses they incur for meals while traveling away from home
on business and meals for business customers
at your place of business, a restaurant, or another location. It applies to expenses incurred at
a business convention or reception, business
meeting, or business luncheon at a club. The
deduction limit may also apply to meals you furnish on your premises to your employees.
Section 210 of the Taxpayer Certainty

TIP and Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2020

provides for the temporary allowance
of a 100% business meal deduction for food or
beverages provided by a restaurant and paid or
incurred after December 31, 2020, and before
January 1, 2023.
Related expenses. Taxes and tips relating to a meal you reimburse to your employee
under an accountable plan are included in the
amount subject to the 50% limit. However, the
cost of transportation to and from an otherwise
allowable business meal isn’t subject to the
50% limit.
Amount subject to 50% limit. If you provide
your employees with a per diem allowance only
for meal and incidental expenses, the amount
treated as an expense for food and beverages
is the lesser of the following.
• The per diem allowance.
• The federal rate for M&IE.
If you provide your employees with a per
diem allowance that covers lodging, meals, and
incidental expenses, you must treat an amount
equal to the federal M&IE rate for the area of
travel as an expense for food and beverages. If
the per diem allowance you provide is less than
the federal per diem rate for the area of travel,
you can treat 40% of the per diem allowance as
the amount for food and beverages.
Page 46

Chapter 11

Other Expenses

Meal expenses when subject to “hours of
service” limits. You can deduct 80% of the
cost of reimbursed meals your employees consume while away from their tax home on business during, or incident to, any period subject to
the Department of Transportation's “hours of
service” limits.
See Pub. 463 for a detailed discussion of individuals subject to the Department of Transportation's “hours of service” limits.

2. Expenses for meals or entertainment if:

De minimis (minimal) fringe benefit. P.L.
115-97, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, changed the
rules for the deduction of food or beverage expenses that are excludable from employee income as a de minimis fringe benefit. For
amounts incurred or paid after 2017, the 50%
limit on deductions for food or beverage expenses also applies to food or beverage expenses
excludable from employee income as a de minimis fringe benefit. While your business deduction may be limited, the rules that allow you to
exclude certain de minimis meals and meals on
your business premises from your employee's
wages still apply. See Meals in section 2 of
Pub. 15-B.

Sales of meals or entertainment. You can
deduct the cost of meals or entertainment (including the use of facilities) you sell to the public. For example, if you run a nightclub, your expense for the entertainment you furnish to your
customers, such as a floor show, is a business
expense that is fully deductible. The 100% limit
doesn’t apply to this expense.

Company cafeteria or executive dining
room. The cost of food and beverages you
provide primarily to your employees on your
business premises is deductible. This includes
the cost of maintaining the facilities for providing the food and beverages. These expenses
are subject to the 50% limit unless they are
compensation to your employees (explained
later).
Employee activities. The expense of providing recreational, social, or similar activities (including the use of a facility) for your employees
is deductible and isn’t subject to the 50% limit.
The benefit must be primarily for your employees who aren’t highly compensated.
For this purpose, a highly compensated employee is an employee who meets either of the
following requirements.
1. Owned a 5%-or-more interest in the business during the year or the preceding
year. An employee is treated as owning
any interest owned by their sibling,
spouse, ancestors, and lineal descendants.
2. Received more than $130,000 in pay for
the preceding year. You can choose to include only employees who were also in
the top 20% of employees when ranked by
pay for the preceding year.
For example, the expenses for food, beverages, and entertainment for a company-wide
picnic aren’t subject to the 50% or 100% limit.
Meals or entertainment treated as compensation. The 50% limit doesn’t apply to either of
the following.
1. Expenses for meals or entertainment that
you treat as:
a. Compensation to an employee who
was the recipient of the meals or entertainment, and
b. Wages subject to withholding of federal income tax.

a. A recipient of the meals or entertainment who isn’t your employee has to
include the expenses in gross income
as compensation for services or as a
prize or award; and
b. You include that amount on a Form
1099-MISC issued to the recipient, if a
Form 1099-MISC is required.

Providing meals or entertainment to general public to promote goodwill. You can
deduct the cost of providing meals, entertainment, or recreational facilities to the general
public as a means of advertising or promoting
goodwill in the community. The 50% or 100%
limit doesn’t apply to this expense.
Director, stockholder, or employee meetings. You can deduct entertainment expenses
directly related to business meetings of your
employees, partners, stockholders, agents, or
directors. You can provide some minor social
activities, but the main purpose of the meeting
must be your company's business. These expenses are subject to the 100% limit.
Trade association meetings. You can deduct expenses directly related to, and necessary for, attending business meetings or conventions of certain tax-exempt organizations.
These organizations include business leagues,
chambers of commerce, real estate boards,
and trade and professional associations.

Nonaccountable Plans
A nonaccountable plan is an arrangement that
doesn’t meet the requirements for an accountable plan. All amounts paid, or treated as paid,
under a nonaccountable plan are reported as
wages on Form W-2. The payments are subject
to income tax withholding, social security, Medicare, and federal unemployment taxes. You can
deduct the reimbursement as compensation or
wages only to the extent it meets the deductibility tests for employees' pay in chapter 2. Deduct
the allowable amount as compensation or wages on the appropriate line of your income tax
return, as provided in its instructions.

Miscellaneous Expenses
In addition to travel, meal, and certain entertainment expenses, there are other expenses you
can deduct.
Advertising expenses. You can generally deduct reasonable advertising expenses that are
directly related to your business activities. Generally, you can’t deduct amounts paid to influence legislation (for example, lobbying). For

more information, see Lobbying expenses,
later.
You can usually deduct as a business expense the cost of institutional or goodwill advertising to keep your name before the public if it
relates to business you reasonably expect to
gain in the future. For example, the cost of advertising that encourages people to contribute
to the Red Cross, to buy U.S. savings bonds, or
to participate in similar causes is usually deductible.
Anticipated liabilities. Anticipated liabilities or
reserves for anticipated liabilities aren’t deductible. For example, assume you sold 1-year TV
service contracts this year totaling $50,000.
From experience, you know you will have expenses of about $15,000 in the coming year for
these contracts. You can’t deduct any of the
$15,000 this year by charging expenses to a reserve or liability account. You can deduct your
expenses only when you actually pay or accrue
them, depending on your accounting method.
Bribes and kickbacks. Engaging in the payment of bribes or kickbacks is a serious criminal
matter. Such activity could result in criminal
prosecution. Any payments that appear to have
been made, either directly or indirectly, to an official or employee of any government or an
agency or instrumentality of any government
aren’t deductible for tax purposes and are in violation of the law.
Payments paid directly or indirectly to a person in violation of any federal or state law (but
only if that state law is generally enforced, defined below) that provides for a criminal penalty
or for the loss of a license or privilege to engage
in a trade or business aren’t allowed as a deduction for tax purposes.
Meaning of “generally enforced.” A state
law is considered generally enforced unless it is
never enforced or enforced only for infamous
persons or persons whose violations are extraordinarily flagrant. For example, a state law is
generally enforced unless proper reporting of a
violation of the law results in enforcement only
under unusual circumstances.
Kickbacks. A kickback is a payment for referring a client, patient, or customer. The common kickback situation occurs when money or
property is given to someone as payment for influencing a third party to purchase from, use the
services of, or otherwise deal with the person
who pays the kickback. In many cases, the person whose business is being sought or enjoyed
by the person who pays the kickback isn’t
aware of the payment.
For example, the Yard Corporation is in the
business of repairing ships. It returns 10% of
the repair bills as kickbacks to the captains and
chief officers of the vessels it repairs. Although
this practice is considered an ordinary and necessary expense of getting business, it is clearly
a violation of a state law that is generally enforced. These expenditures aren’t deductible
for tax purposes, whether or not the owners of
the shipyard are subsequently prosecuted.
Form 1099-MISC.
It doesn’t matter
whether any kickbacks paid during the tax year

are deductible on your income tax return in regards to information reporting. See Form
1099-MISC for more information.
Car and truck expenses. The costs of operating a car, truck, or other vehicle in your business may be deductible. For more information
on how to figure your deduction, see Pub. 463.
Charitable contributions. Cash payments to
an organization, charitable or otherwise, may
be deductible as business expenses if the payments aren’t charitable contributions or gifts
and are directly related to your business. If the
payments are charitable contributions or gifts,
you can’t deduct them as business expenses.
However, corporations (other than S corporations) can deduct charitable contributions on
their income tax returns, subject to limitations.
See the Instructions for Form 1120 for more information. Sole proprietors, partners in a partnership, or shareholders in an S corporation
may be able to deduct charitable contributions
made by their businesses on Schedule A (Form
1040).
Example. You paid $15 to a local church
for a half-page ad in a program for a concert it is
sponsoring. The purpose of the ad was to encourage readers to buy your products. Your
payment isn’t a charitable contribution. You can
deduct it as an advertising expense.
Example. You made a $100,000 donation
to a committee organized by the local Chamber
of Commerce to bring a convention to your city,
intended to increase business activity, including
yours. Your payment isn’t a charitable contribution. You can deduct it as a business expense.
See Pub. 526 for a discussion of donated inventory, including capital gain property.
Club dues and membership fees. Generally,
you can’t deduct amounts paid or incurred for
membership in any club organized for business,
pleasure, recreation, or any other social purpose. This includes country clubs, golf and athletic clubs, hotel clubs, sporting clubs, airline
clubs, and clubs operated to provide meals under circumstances generally considered to be
conducive to business discussions.
Exception. The following organizations
aren’t treated as clubs organized for business,
pleasure, recreation, or other social purpose
unless one of the main purposes is to conduct
entertainment activities for members or their
guests or to provide members or their guests
with access to entertainment facilities.
• Boards of trade.
• Business leagues.
• Chambers of commerce.
• Civic or public service organizations.
• Professional organizations such as bar associations and medical associations.
• Real estate boards.
• Trade associations.
Credit card convenience fees. Credit card
companies charge a fee to businesses who accept their cards. This fee when paid or incurred
by the business can be deducted as a business
expense.

Damages recovered. Special rules apply to
compensation you receive for damages sustained as a result of patent infringement, breach
of contract or fiduciary duty, or antitrust violations. You must include this compensation in
your income. However, you may be able to take
a special deduction. The deduction applies only
to amounts recovered for actual economic injury, not any additional amount. The deduction
is the smaller of the following.
• The amount you received or accrued for
damages in the tax year reduced by the
amount you paid or incurred in the year to
recover that amount.
• Your losses from the injury you haven’t deducted.
Demolition expenses or losses. Amounts
paid or incurred to demolish a structure aren’t
deductible. These amounts are added to the
basis of the land where the demolished structure was located. Any loss for the remaining undepreciated basis of a demolished structure
wouldn’t be recognized until the property is disposed of.
Education expenses. Ordinary and necessary expenses paid for the cost of the education
and training of your employees are deductible.
See Education Expenses in chapter 2.
You can also deduct the cost of your own
education (including certain related travel) related to your trade or business. You must be able
to show the education maintains or improves
skills required in your trade or business, or that
it is required by law or regulations, for keeping
your license to practice, status, or job. For example, an attorney can deduct the cost of attending Continuing Legal Education (CLE)
classes that are required by the state bar association to maintain their license to practice law.
Education expenses you incur to meet the
minimum requirements of your present trade or
business, or those that qualify you for a new
trade or business, aren’t deductible. This is true
even if the education maintains or improves
skills presently required in your business. For
more information on education expenses, see
Pub. 970.
Franchise, trademark, trade name. If you
buy a franchise, trademark, or trade name, you
can deduct the amount you pay or incur as a
business expense only if your payments are
part of a series of payments that are:
1. Contingent on productivity, use, or disposition of the item;
2. Payable at least annually for the entire
term of the transfer agreement; and
3. Substantially equal in amount (or payable
under a fixed formula).
When determining the term of the transfer
agreement, include all renewal options and any
other period for which you and the transferor
reasonably expect the agreement to be renewed.
A franchise includes an agreement that
gives one of the parties to the agreement the
right to distribute, sell, or provide goods, services, or facilities within a specified area.

Chapter 11

Other Expenses

Page 47

Impairment-related expenses. If you are disabled, you can deduct expenses necessary for
you to be able to work (impairment-related expenses) as a business expense, rather than as
a medical expense.
You are disabled if you have either of the following.
• A physical or mental disability (for example, blindness or deafness) that functionally limits your being employed.
• A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of your major
life activities.
The expense qualifies as a business expense if all the following apply.
• Your work clearly requires the expense for
you to satisfactorily perform that work.
• The goods or services purchased are
clearly not needed or used, other than incidentally, in your personal activities.
• Their treatment isn’t specifically provided
for under other tax law provisions.
Example. You are blind. You must use a
reader to do your work, both at and away from
your place of work. The reader's services are
only for your work. You can deduct your expenses for the reader as a business expense.
Internet-related expenses. Generally, you
can deduct Internet-related expenses including
domain registration fees and webmaster consulting costs. If you are starting a business, you
may have to amortize these expenses as
startup costs. For more information about amortizing startup and organizational costs, see
chapter 8.
Interview expense allowances. Reimbursements you make to job candidates for transportation or other expenses related to interviews
for possible employment aren’t wages. You can
deduct the reimbursements as a business expense. However, expenses for food and beverages are subject to the 50% limit discussed earlier under Meals.
Legal and professional fees. Fees charged
by accountants and attorneys that are ordinary
and necessary expenses directly related to operating your business are deductible as business expenses. However, legal fees you pay to
acquire business assets usually aren’t deductible. These costs are added to the basis of the
property.
Fees that include payments for work of a
personal nature (such as drafting a will or damages arising from a personal injury) aren’t allowed as a business deduction on Schedule C
(Form 1040). If the invoice includes both business and personal charges, figure the business
portion as follows: multiply the total amount of
the bill by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the amount attributable to business matters,
and the denominator of which is the total
amount paid. The result is the portion of the invoice attributable to business expenses. The
portion attributable to personal matters is the
difference between the total amount and the
business portion (figured above).
Legal fees related to doing or keeping your
job, such as those you paid to defend yourself
against criminal charges arising out of your
Page 48

Chapter 11

Other Expenses

trade or business, may be deductible on Schedule A (Form 1040) if you itemize deductions.
For more information, see Pub. 529.

with a notice on the part of dues that is allocable
to nondeductible lobbying and political expenses, you can’t deduct that part of the dues.

Certain payments made in sexual harassment or sexual abuse cases. For
amounts paid or incurred after December 22,
2017, new section 162(q) provides that no deduction is allowed under section 162 for any
settlement or payment related to sexual harassment or sexual abuse if it is subject to a nondisclosure agreement. In addition, attorney’s fees
related to such a settlement or payment aren’t
allowed as a deduction.

Covered executive branch official. For
purposes of this discussion, a “covered executive branch official” is any of the following.

Tax preparation fees. The cost of hiring a
tax professional, such as a certified public accountant (CPA), to prepare that part of your tax
return relating to your business as a sole proprietor is deductible on Schedule C (Form
1040). You can deduct the expenses of preparing tax schedules relating to rental properties
on Schedule E or farm income and expenses
on Schedule F. Expenses for completing the remainder of the return are miscellaneous deductions and are no longer deductible.
You can also claim a business deduction for
amounts paid or incurred in resolving asserted
tax deficiencies for your business operated as a
sole proprietor.
Licenses and regulatory fees. Licenses and
regulatory fees for your trade or business paid
annually to state or local governments are generally deductible. Some licenses and fees may
have to be amortized. See chapter 8 for more
information.
Lobbying expenses. Generally, lobbying expenses aren’t deductible. Lobbying expenses
include amounts paid or incurred for any of the
following activities.
• Influencing legislation.
• Participating in or intervening in any political campaign for, or against, any candidate
for public office.
• Attempting to influence the general public,
or segments of the public, about elections,
legislative matters, or referendums.
• Communicating directly with covered executive branch officials (defined later) in
any attempt to influence the official actions
or positions of those officials.
• Researching, preparing, planning, or coordinating any of the preceding activities.
Your expenses for influencing legislation
and communicating directly with a covered executive branch official include a portion of your
labor costs and general and administrative
costs of your business. For information on making this allocation, see section 1.162-28 of the
regulations.
You can’t claim a charitable or business expense deduction for amounts paid to an organization if both of the following apply.
• The organization conducts lobbying activities on matters of direct financial interest to
your business.
• A principal purpose of your contribution is
to avoid the rules discussed earlier that
prohibit a business deduction for lobbying
expenses.
If a tax-exempt organization, other than a
section 501(c)(3) organization, provides you

1. The President.
2. The Vice President.
3. Any officer or employee of the White
House Office of the Executive Office of the
President and the two most senior level officers of each of the other agencies in the
Executive Office.
4. Any individual who:
a. Is serving in a position in Level I of the
Executive Schedule under section
5312 of title 5, United States Code;
b. Has been designated by the President as having Cabinet-level status;
or
c. Is an immediate deputy of an individual listed in item (a) or (b).
Exceptions to denial of deduction. The
general denial of the deduction doesn’t apply to
the following.
• Any in-house expenses for influencing legislation and communicating directly with a
covered executive branch official if those
expenses for the tax year don’t exceed
$2,000 (excluding overhead expenses).
• Expenses incurred by taxpayers engaged
in the trade or business of lobbying (professional lobbyists) on behalf of another
person (but does apply to payments by the
other person to the lobbyist for lobbying
activities).
Moving machinery. Generally, the cost of
moving machinery from one city to another is a
deductible expense. So is the cost of moving
machinery from one plant to another, or from
one part of your plant to another. You can deduct the cost of installing the machinery in the
new location. However, you must capitalize the
costs of installing or moving newly purchased
machinery.
Outplacement services. The costs of outplacement services you provide to your employees to help them find new employment, such as
career counseling, resume assistance, skills assessment, etc., are deductible.
The costs of outplacement services may
cover more than one deduction category. For
example, deduct as a utilities expense the cost
of telephone calls made under this service and
deduct as a rental expense the cost of renting
machinery and equipment for this service.
For information on whether the value of outplacement services is includible in your employees' income, see Pub. 15-B.
Penalties and fines. Penalties paid for late
performance or nonperformance of a contract
are generally deductible. For instance, you own
and operate a construction company. Under a
contract, you are to finish construction of a
building by a certain date. Due to construction
delays, the building isn’t completed and ready

for occupancy on the date stipulated in the contract. You are now required to pay an additional
amount for each day that completion is delayed
beyond the completion date stipulated in the
contract. These additional costs are deductible
business expenses.
On the other hand, generally, no deduction
is allowed for penalties and fines paid to a government or specified nongovernmental entity for
the violation of any law except the following.
• Amounts that constitute restitution.
• Amounts paid to come into compliance
with the law.
• Amounts paid or incurred as the result of
certain court orders in which no government or specified nongovernmental
agency is a party.
• Amounts paid or incurred for taxes due.
On or after December 22, 2017, no deduction is allowed for the restitution amount or
amount paid to come into compliance with the
law unless the amounts are specifically identified in the settlement agreement or court order.
Also, any amount paid or incurred as reimbursement to a government for the costs of any
investigation or litigation aren’t eligible for the
exceptions and are nondeductible.
See section 162(f), as amended by P.L.
115-97, section 13306.
Examples of nondeductible penalties and
fines include the following.
• Amounts paid because of a conviction for
a crime or after a plea of guilty or no contest in a criminal proceeding.
• Amounts paid as a penalty imposed by
federal, state, or local law in a civil action,
including certain additions to tax and additional amounts and assessable penalties
imposed by the Internal Revenue Code.
• Amounts paid in settlement of actual or
possible liability for a fine or penalty,
whether civil or criminal.
• Amounts forfeited as collateral posted for a
proceeding that could result in a fine or
penalty.
• Fines paid for violating city housing codes.
• Fines paid by truckers for violating state
maximum highway weight laws.
• Fines paid for violating air quality laws.
• Civil penalties paid for violating federal
laws regarding mining safety standards
and discharges into navigable waters.
A fine or penalty doesn’t include any of the
following.
• Legal fees and related expenses to defend
yourself in a prosecution or civil action for a
violation of the law imposing the fine or civil
penalty.
• Court costs or stenographic and printing
charges.
• Compensatory damages paid to a government.
Political contributions. Contributions or gifts
paid to political parties or candidates aren’t deductible. In addition, expenses paid or incurred
to take part in any political campaign of a candidate for public office aren’t deductible.
Indirect political contributions.
You
can’t deduct indirect political contributions and

costs of taking part in political activities as business expenses. Examples of nondeductible expenses include the following.
• Advertising in a convention program of a
political party, or in any other publication if
any of the proceeds from the publication
are for, or intended for, the use of a political party or candidate.
• Admission to a dinner or program (including, but not limited to, galas, dances, film
presentations, parties, and sporting
events) if any of the proceeds from the
function are for, or intended for, the use of
a political party or candidate.
• Admission to an inaugural ball, gala, parade, concert, or similar event if identified
with a political party or candidate.
Repairs. The cost of repairing or improving
property used in your trade or business is either
a deductible or capital expense. Routine maintenance that keeps your property in a normal efficient operating condition, but that doesn’t materially increase the value or substantially
prolong the useful life of the property, is deductible in the year that it is incurred. Otherwise,
the cost must be capitalized and depreciated.
See Form 4562 and its instructions for how to
figure and claim the depreciation deduction.
The cost of repairs includes the costs of labor, supplies, and certain other items. The
value of your own labor isn’t deductible. Examples of repairs include:
• Reconditioning floors (but not replacement),
• Repainting the interior and exterior walls of
a building,
• Cleaning and repairing roofs and gutters,
and
• Fixing plumbing leaks (but not replacement
of fixtures).
Repayments. If you had to repay an amount
you included in your income in an earlier year,
you may be able to deduct the amount repaid
for the year in which you repaid it. Or, if the
amount you repaid is more than $3,000, you
may be able to take a credit against your tax for
the year in which you repaid it. In most cases,
you can claim a deduction or credit only if the
repayment qualifies as an expense or loss incurred in your trade or business or in a for-profit
transaction.
Type of deduction. The type of deduction
you are allowed in the year of repayment depends on the type of income you included in the
earlier year. For instance, if you repay an
amount you previously reported as a capital
gain, deduct the repayment as a capital loss as
explained in the Instructions for Schedule D
(Form 1040). If you reported it as self-employment income, deduct it as a business expense
on Schedule C (Form 1040), or a farm expense
on Schedule F (Form 1040).
If you reported the amount as wages, unemployment compensation, or other nonbusiness
ordinary income, you may be able to deduct it
as an other itemized deduction if the amount repaid is over $3,000.

Beginning in 2018, due to the suspension of miscellaneous itemized deducCAUTION tions subject to the 2% floor under section 67(a), you aren’t able to deduct the
repayment as an itemized deduction if it is
$3,000 or less.

!

Repayment—$3,000 or less.
If the
amount you repaid was $3,000 or less, deduct it
from your income in the year you repaid it.
Repayment—Over $3,000. If the amount
you repaid was more than $3,000, you can deduct the repayment as an other itemized deduction on Schedule A (Form 1040), line 16, if you
included the income under a “claim of right.”
This means that at the time you included the income, it appeared that you had an unrestricted
right to it. However, you can choose to take a
credit for the year of repayment. Figure your tax
under both methods and use the method that
results in less tax.
Method 1. Figure your tax for 2022 claiming a deduction for the repaid amount.
Method 2. Figure your tax for 2022 claiming a credit for the repaid amount. Follow these
steps.
1. Figure your tax for 2022 without deducting
the repaid amount.
2. Refigure your tax from the earlier year
without including in income the amount
you repaid in 2022.
3. Subtract the tax in (2) from the tax shown
on your return for the earlier year. This is
the amount of your credit.
4. Subtract the answer in (3) from the tax for
2022 figured without the deduction (step
1).
If Method 1 results in less tax, deduct the
amount repaid as discussed earlier under Type
of deduction.
If Method 2 results in less tax, claim the
credit on Schedule 3 (Form 1040), line 13z, and
write “I.R.C. 1341” next to line 13z.
Example. For 2021, you filed a return and
reported your income on the cash method. In
2022, you repaid $5,000 included in your 2021
gross income under a claim of right. Your filing
status in 2022 and 2021 is single. Your income
and tax for both years are as follows:
2021
With Income
Taxable
Income

2021
Without
Income

$15,000

$10,000

Tax

$ 1,604

$ 1,004

2022
Without
Deduction

2022
With Deduction

$49,950

$44,950

$6,606

$5,506

Taxable
Income
Tax

Your tax under Method 1 is $5,506. Your tax under Method 2 is $6,006, figured as follows:
Chapter 11

Other Expenses

Page 49

Tax previously determined for
2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Less: Tax as refigured . . . . . . . . . . .
Decrease in 2021 tax . . . . . . . . . . . .
Regular tax liability for 2022 . . . . . . .
Less: Decrease in 2021 tax . . . . . . .
Refigured tax for 2022 . . . . . . .

$ 1,604
− 1,004
$600
$6,606
− 600
$6,006

12.

How To Get Tax
Help
Because you pay less tax under Method 1, you

should take a deduction for the repayment in
2022.
Repayment does not apply. This discussion doesn’t apply to the following.
• Deductions for bad debts.
• Deductions from sales to customers, such
as returns and allowances, and similar
items.
• Deductions for legal and other expenses of
contesting the repayment.

Year of deduction (or credit). If you use
the cash method of accounting, you can take
the deduction (or credit, if applicable) for the tax
year in which you actually make the repayment.
If you use any other accounting method, you
can deduct the repayment or claim a credit for it
only for the tax year in which it is a proper deduction under your accounting method. For example, if you use the accrual method, you are
entitled to the deduction or credit in the tax year
in which the obligation for the repayment accrues.
Supplies and materials. Unless you have deducted the cost in any earlier year, you can generally deduct the cost of materials and supplies
actually consumed and used during the tax
year.
If you keep incidental materials and supplies
on hand, you can deduct the cost of the incidental materials and supplies you bought during
the tax year if all the following requirements are
met.
• You don’t keep a record of when they are
used.
• You don’t take an inventory of the amount
on hand at the beginning and end of the
tax year.
• This method doesn’t distort your income.
You can also deduct the cost of books, professional instruments, equipment, etc., if you
normally use them within a year. However, if the
usefulness of these items extends substantially
beyond the year they are placed in service, you
must generally recover their costs through depreciation. For more information regarding depreciation, see Pub. 946.
Utilities. Business expenses for heat, lights,
power, telephone service, and water and sewerage are deductible. However, any part due to
personal use isn’t deductible.
Telephone. You can’t deduct the cost of
basic local telephone service (including any
taxes) for the first telephone line you have in
your home, even if you have an office in your
home. However, charges for business long-distance phone calls on that line, as well as the
cost of a second line into your home used exclusively for business, are deductible business
expenses.
Page 50

Chapter 12

How To Get Tax Help

If you have questions about a tax issue; need
help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications, forms, or instructions, go
to IRS.gov to find resources that can help you
right away.
TTY/TDD and Federal Relay Service. People
who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech
disability and who have access to TTY/TDD
equipment can call toll free 800-829-4059 to
ask tax questions or to order forms and publications. Deaf or hard of hearing customers may
call any of our toll-free numbers using their
choice of relay service.
Coronavirus. Go to IRS.gov/Coronavirus for
links to information on the impact of the coronavirus, as well as tax relief available for individuals and families, small and large businesses,
and tax-exempt organizations.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After
receiving all your wage and earning statements
(Forms W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, 1099-MISC,
1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment compensation
statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form
1099-G); and interest, dividend, and retirement
statements from banks and investment firms
(Forms 1099), you have several options to
choose from to prepare and file your tax return.
You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if
you qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax
professional to prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Go to
IRS.gov to see your options for preparing and
filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, which include the following.
• Free File. This program lets you prepare
and file your federal individual income tax
return for free using brand-name tax-preparation-and-filing software or Free File fillable forms. However, state tax preparation
may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for
free online federal tax preparation, e-filing,
and direct deposit or payment options.
• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help
to people with low-to-moderate incomes,
persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help
preparing their own tax returns. Go to
IRS.gov/VITA, download the free IRS2Go
app, or call 800-906-9887 for information
on free tax return preparation.
• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly
(TCE) program offers free tax help for all
taxpayers, particularly those who are 60
years of age and older. TCE volunteers
specialize in answering questions about
pensions and retirement-related issues

unique to seniors. Go to IRS.gov/TCE,
download the free IRS2Go app, or call
888-227-7669 for information on free tax
return preparation.
• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed
Forces and qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/
MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms,
which can be completed online and then filed
electronically regardless of income.
Employers can register to use Business
Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/
Employer for fast, free, and secure online W-2
filing options to certified public accountants
(CPAs), accountants, enrolled agents, and individuals who process Forms W-2, Wage and
Tax Statement, and Forms W-2c, Corrected
Wage and Tax Statement.
Tax reform. Tax reform legislation affects individuals, businesses, and tax-exempt and government entities. Go to IRS.gov/TaxReform for
information and updates on how this legislation
affects your taxes.
A–Z index for business. Find it fast! Know
what you're looking for and want to find it fast?
Select business topics using our A–Z listing, or
by business type such as sole proprietor, corporation, etc. We also provide links to major
business subjects, such as Business Expenses,
which provide a gateway to all related information on those subjects.
• Small Business Forms and Publications.
You can download forms and publications
for small businesses and self-employed individuals.
• Employer ID Numbers (EINs). Find out
about EINs or apply for one online.
• e-File Form 940, 941, 944, or 945 for Small
Businesses. Learn your options for e-filing
Form 940, 941, 944, or 945 for small businesses.
• Employment Taxes. Federal income tax,
social security and Medicare taxes, FUTA
tax, self-employment tax, and more.
• Independent Contractor (Self-Employed)
or Employee. It is critical that you, the employer, correctly determine whether the individuals providing services are employees
or independent contractors.
• Self-Employed Individuals Tax Center. The
basics on self-employment, filing requirements, and reporting responsibilities for independent contractors.
• Information Return Filing Requirements. If
you made or received a payment as a
small business or self-employed individual,
you are most likely required to file an information return with the IRS.
• IRS Video Portal. Videos, webinars, and
audio presentations for small businesses,
individuals, and tax pros.
• Small Business Events. Workshops and
webinars on a variety of topics for small
businesses.
• Online Tools & Educational Products.
Choose from a variety of products,

including the Tax Calendar desktop tool, to
help you learn about business taxes on
your own time, and at your own pace.
• Subscribe to e-News. A free electronic
mail service keeping you up to date on tax
topics.
Requirements for filing. If you made or received a payment during the calendar year as a
small business or self-employed individual, you
are most likely required to file an information return with the IRS. For more information, see Am
I Required To File a Form 1099 or Other
Information Return? on IRS.gov.
Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov, you can get
up-to-date information on current
events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you

get answers to some of the most common
tax questions.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant,
a tool that will ask you questions and,
based on you input, provide answers on a
number of tax law topics.
• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions,
and publications. You will find details on
the most recent tax changes and interactive links to help you find answers to your
questions.
• You may also be able to access tax law information in your electronic filing software.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia
to see the various social media tools the IRS
uses to share the latest information on tax
changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and
services. At the IRS, privacy and security are
our highest priority. We use these tools to share
public information with you. Don’t post your social security number (SSN) or other confidential
information on social media sites. Always protect your identity when using any social networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English, Spanish, and ASL.
• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Watching IRS videos. The IRS Video portal
(IRSVideos.gov) contains video and audio presentations for individuals, small businesses,
and tax professionals.
Online tax information in other languages.
You can find information on IRS.gov/
MyLanguage if English isn't your native language.

formation about accessibility services can call
833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can
answer questions related to current and future
accessibility products and services available in
alternative media formats (for example, braille,
large print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have access to your IRS account.
For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp.
Note. Form 9000, Alternative Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to
receive certain types of written correspondence
in the following formats.
• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to Disaster Assistance and
Emergency Relief for Individuals and
Businesses to review the available disaster tax
relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to
IRS.gov/Forms to view, download, or print all of
the forms, instructions, and publications you
may need. Or, you can go to IRS.gov/
OrderForms to place an order and have them
mailed to you within 10 business days.
Getting tax publications and instructions in
eBook format. You can also download and
view popular tax publications and instructions
(including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
Note. IRS eBooks have been tested using
Apple's iBooks for iPad. Our eBooks haven't
been tested on other dedicated eBook readers,
and eBook functionality may not operate as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax
account.
• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax year.
• See payment plan details or apply for a
new payment plan.
• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history and any pending or scheduled payments.
• Access your tax records, including key
data from your most recent tax return and
transcripts.
• View digital copies of select notices from
the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests
from tax professionals.
• View your address on file or manage your
communication preferences.

Free Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS is committed to serving our multilingual customers by offering OPI services. The
OPI Service is a federally funded program and
is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers
(TACs), other IRS offices, and every VITA/TCE
return site. The OPI Service is accessible in
more than 350 languages.

Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional submit an authorization request to access your individual taxpayer IRS online
account. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.

Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with disabilities. Taxpayers who need in-

Using direct deposit. The fastest way to receive a tax refund is to file electronically and

choose direct deposit, which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your
financial account. Direct deposit also avoids the
possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in 10
taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If you don't have a bank account, go to
IRS.gov/DirectDeposit for more information on
where to find a bank or credit union that can
open an account online.
Need someone to prepare your tax return?
There are various types of tax return preparers,
including enrolled agents, CPAs, attorneys, and
many others who don't have professional credentials. If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return, choose that preparer
wisely. A paid tax preparer is:
• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,
• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification number (PTIN).
Although the tax preparer always signs the
return, you're ultimately responsible for providing all the information required for the preparer
to accurately prepare your return. Anyone paid
to prepare tax returns for others should have a
thorough understanding of tax matters. For
more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer
on IRS.gov.
For your convenience, the IRS provides an
online database for all Authorized IRS e-file
Providers that choose to be included in the database. You can locate the closest Authorized
IRS e-file Providers in your area where you can
electronically file your tax return. For more information on finding a tax return preparer who provides IRS e-file, see Authorized IRS e-file
Providers for Individuals on IRS.gov, or go to
IRS.gov/uac/Authorized-IRS-e-file-Providersfor-Individuals. The inclusion in this database
does not constitute any endorsement by the
IRS of the e-file Providers listed in this database
or any of the products or services that they provide. You should always be sure to conduct
your own due diligence when selecting an e-file
Provider. In addition to the Authorized IRS e-file
Provider locator tool above, you can also find
professional help through the IRS Tax
Professional Partner page at IRS.gov/TaxProfessionals/IRSTaxProAssociationPartners.
Choose a tax return preparer you will be
able to contact in case the IRS examines your
return and has questions regarding how your
return was prepared. You can designate your
paid tax return preparer or another third party to
speak to the IRS concerning the preparation of
your return, payment/refund issues, and mathematical errors. The third party authorization
checkbox on Form 1040 or 1040-SR gives the
designated party the authority to receive and inspect returns and return information for 1 year
from the original due date of your return (without
regard to extensions). You can extend the authority to receive and inspect returns and return
information to a third party using Form 8821,
Tax Information Authorization.

Chapter 12

How To Get Tax Help

Page 51

The following points will assist you when selecting a tax return preparer.
• Check the preparer’s qualifications. All
paid tax return preparers are required to
have a PTIN.
• Check the preparer’s history. You can
check with the Better Business Bureau to
find out if a preparer has a questionable
history. Check for disciplinary actions and
the license status for credentialed preparers. For CPAs, check with the State Board
of Accountancy. For attorneys, check with
the State Bar Association. For Enrolled
Agents (EAs), go to IRS.gov/TaxProfessionals/Verify-the-Status-of-anEnrolled-Agent and follow the instructions
for requesting EA status verification.
• Ask about service fees. Avoid preparers
who base their fee on a percentage of your
refund or those who say they can get
larger refunds than others can. Always
make sure any refund due is sent directly
to you or deposited into your bank account. You should not have your refund
deposited into a preparer’s bank account.
• Ask to e-file your return. Make sure your
preparer offers IRS e-file. Any paid preparer who prepares and files more than 10
returns must generally e-file their clients’
returns. The IRS has safely processed
more than 1.3 billion e-filed tax returns.
• Make sure the preparer is available.
You need to ensure that you can contact
the tax preparer after you file your return.
That’s true even after the April 17, 2023,
due date for individual returns. The due
date for partnerships and S corporations
using a calendar year is March 15, 2023.
You may need to contact the preparer if
questions come up about your tax return at
a later time.
• Provide tax records. A good preparer will
ask to see your records and receipts. They
ask you questions to report your total income and the tax benefits you’re entitled to
claim. These may include tax deductions,
tax credits, and other items. Do not use a
preparer who is willing to e-file your return
using your last pay stub instead of your
Form W-2. This is against IRS e-file rules.
• Never sign a blank tax return. Do not
use a tax preparer who asks you to sign a
blank tax form.
• Review your return before signing. Before you sign your tax return, review it thoroughly. Ask questions if something is not
clear to you. Make sure you’re comfortable
with the information on the return before
you sign it.
• Preparer must sign returns and include
their PTIN. A paid preparer must sign returns and include his or her PTIN as required by law. The preparer must also give
you a copy of the return.
• Report abusive tax preparers to the
IRS. You can report abusive tax preparers
and suspected tax fraud to the IRS. Use
Form 14157, Complaint: Tax Return
Preparer. If you suspect a return preparer
filed or changed the return without your
consent, you should also file Form 14157A, Return Preparer Fraud or Misconduct
Affidavit. You can download and print
these forms from IRS.gov. If you need a
Page 52

Chapter 12

How To Get Tax Help

paper form mailed to you, go to IRS.gov/
OrderForms to order online. For more information, go to How Do You Report
Suspected Tax Fraud Activity? on IRS.gov.
Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to IRS.gov/Tools for the following.
• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant
(IRS.gov/EITCAssistant) determines if
you’re eligible for the earned income credit
(EIC).
• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN)
helps you get an employer identification
number (EIN) at no cost.
• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/
W4app) makes it easier for you to estimate
the federal income tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck.
This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home
pay, or tax due.

• The First-Time Homebuyer Credit Account

•

•

•
•

Look-up (IRS.gov/HomeBuyer) tool provides information on your repayments and
account balance.
The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator
(IRS.gov/SalesTax) figures the amount you
can claim if you itemize deductions on
Schedule A (Form 1040).
Go to IRS.gov/Pub17 to get Pub. 17, Your
Federal Income Tax for Individuals, which
features details on tax-saving opportunities, 2022 tax changes, and thousands of
interactive links to help you find answers to
your questions. View it online in HTML or
as a PDF or, better yet, download it to your
mobile device to enjoy eBook features.
You may also be able to access tax law information in your electronic filing software.
Go to IRS.gov and click on the Help & Resources tab for more information.

Getting a transcript or copy of a return. Tax
transcripts are summaries of tax returns. IRS
transcripts are best and most often used to validate past income and tax filing status for mortgage, student, and small business loan applications, and to help with tax preparation.
Taxpayers can also use transcripts to obtain
their prior-year adjusted gross income (AGI),
which they need in order to e-file their tax returns. You can get a transcript by mail to view
your tax account transactions or line-by-line tax
return information for a specific tax year. The
method you used to file your return and whether
you have a refund or balance due affects your
current tax year transcript availability. Generally, these transcript types are available for the
current tax year and 3 prior years. The quickest
way to get a copy of your tax transcript is to go
to IRS.gov/Transcripts. Click on either "Get
Transcript Online" or "Get Transcript by Mail" to
order a free copy of your transcript. If you need
an account transcript for an older tax year, a
wage and income transcript, or a verification of
nonfiling letter, you’ll need to complete Form
4506-T, Request for Transcript of Tax Return,
available
at
IRS.gov/Forms-Pubs/AboutForm-4506-T, and send it to us as instructed on
the form. If you made estimated tax payments
and/or applied your overpayment from a
prior-year tax return to your current-year tax return, you can request a tax account transcript to
confirm these payments or credits a few weeks

after the beginning of the calendar year prior to
filing your current-year return. For the list of the
various types of transcripts available for you to
order, see Transcript Types and Ways to Order
Them
at
IRS.gov/Individuals/Tax-ReturnTranscript-Types-and-Ways-to-Order-Them. To
order your transcript, you can choose from one
of the following convenient options.
• Request a return or account transcript using Get Transcript at IRS.gov/Individuals/
Get-Transcript.
• Download the free IRS2Go app to your
mobile device and use it to order transcripts of your tax returns or tax account.
• Call the automated transcript toll-free line
at 800-908-9946 to receive your transcript
by mail.
• Go to Get Transcript at IRS.gov/
Individuals/Get-Transcript, and click on
“Get Transcript by Mail.” You will need
your SSN or your individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN), date of birth, and
address from your latest tax return. Transcripts arrive in 5 to 10 calendar days at
the address we have on file for you.
• Mail Form 4506-T, Request for Transcript
of Tax Return, or Form 4506T-EZ, Short
Form Request for Individual Tax Return
Transcript (both available on IRS.gov).
The IRS never sends email requesting that
you obtain or access your transcripts. Report all
unsolicited email claiming to be from the IRS or
an IRS-related function to phishing@irs.gov.
A transcript isn’t a photocopy of your return.
If you need a photocopy of your original return,
complete and mail Form 4506, Request for
Copy of Tax Return, available at IRS.gov/Pub/
irs-pdf/F4506.pdf, along with the applicable fee.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related
identity theft issues.
• Tax-related identity theft happens when
someone steals your personal information
to commit tax fraud. Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.
• The IRS doesn't initiate contact with taxpayers by email, text messages (including
shortened links), telephone calls, or social
media channels to request or verify personal or financial information. This includes requests for personal identification
numbers (PINs), passwords, or similar information for credit cards, banks, or other
financial accounts.
• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft Central webpage, for information
on identity theft and data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and
businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you're a victim of
tax-related identity theft, you can learn
what steps you should take.
• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP
PINs are six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their
SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return
with your SSN. To learn more, go to
IRS.gov/IPPIN.
• The IRS stops and flags suspicious or duplicate federal tax returns that falsely

represent your identity, such as your name
or SSN. If the IRS suspects tax ID theft, the
agency will send a 5071C letter to your
home address. If you receive this letter,
verify your identity at IDVerify.IRS.gov or
call the toll-free number listed in the letter.
If you did not receive an IRS notice but believe you’ve been the victim of ID theft,
contact the IRS Identity Protection Specialized Unit at 800-908-4490 right away so
we can take steps to secure your tax account and match your SSN or ITIN.
• Also, fill out and submit the IRS Form
14039, Identity Theft Affidavit. Please write
legibly and follow the directions on the
back of the form that relate to your specific
circumstances.
• If you are a victim of state tax ID theft, contact your state's taxation department or
comptroller's office about the next steps
you need to take.
• You should protect the information that you
keep, and properly dispose of what you no
longer need. And, of course, you should
create a plan to respond to security incidents. As part of its long-standing efforts to
promote good data security practices, the
Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has undertaken extensive efforts to educate businesses and has brought more than 50 law
enforcement actions related to data security issues. For more information, see Protecting Personal Information: A Guide for
Business, available at FTC.gov/Tipsadvice/business-center/guidance/
protecting-personal-information-guidebusiness, for practical tips on creating and
implementing a plan for safeguarding personal information used in your business.
Most recently, the FTC released Start with
Security: A Guide for Business, available
at FTC.gov/Tips-advice/business-center/
guidance/start-security-guide-business?
utm_source=govdelivery, which draws on
the lessons learned from the FTC's enforcement actions.
The IRS, the states, and the tax industry
joined together to enact new safeguards and
take additional actions to combat tax-related
identity theft. Many of these safeguards will be
invisible to you, but invaluable to our fight
against these criminal syndicates. If you prepare your own return with tax software, you will
see new log-on standards. Some states also
have taken additional steps. See your state
revenue agency’s web site for additional details.
The FTC works for consumers to prevent
fraudulent, deceptive, and unfair business practices and to provide information to help spot,
stop, and avoid them. To file a complaint, for
example, to report someone falsely claiming to
be from the government, a business, or a family
member, visit the FTC’s online Report Fraud
Assistant
or
call
877-FTC-HELP
(877-382-4357). The FTC enters complaints
into Consumer Sentinel, a secure, online database available to more than 2,000 civil and
criminal law enforcement agencies in the United
States and abroad. Complaints from consumers
help the FTC detect patterns of fraud and

abuse. The FTC’s website provides free information on a variety of consumer topics, in English and in Spanish.
Consumer complaints regarding international scams can be reported online through
Econsumer.gov. These are also entered into
Consumer Sentinel, the complaint database
maintained by the FTC, and are made available
to enforcers and regulators in countries with
participating agencies. Those agencies may
use the complaints to investigate cross-border
issues, uncover new scams, pursue regulatory
or enforcement actions, and spot consumer
trends.
Ways to check on the status of your refund.
• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your
mobile device to check your refund status.
• Call the automated refund hotline at
800-829-1954.
Note. The IRS can’t issue refunds before
mid-February for returns that claimed the EIC or
the additional child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.
Making a tax payment. Go to IRS.gov/
Payments for information on how to make a
payment using any of the following options.
• IRS Direct Pay: Pay your individual tax bill
or estimated tax payment directly from
your checking or savings account at no
cost to you.
• Debit or Credit Card: Choose an approved
payment processor to pay online or by
phone.
• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a
payment when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or
through a tax professional.
• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System:
Best option for businesses. Enrollment is
required.
• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment
to the address listed on the notice or instructions.
• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes
with cash at a participating retail store.
• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do
same-day wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for
availability, cost, and time frames.
Note. The IRS uses the latest encryption
technology to ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by phone, or from a
mobile device using the IRS2Go app are safe
and secure. Paying electronically is quick, easy,
and faster than mailing in a check or money order.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/
Payments for more information about your options.
• Apply for an online payment agreement
(IRS.gov/OPA) to meet your tax obligation
in monthly installments if you can’t pay
your taxes in full today. Once you complete
the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has been approved.

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier
to see if you can settle your tax debt for
less than the full amount you owe. For
more information on the Offer in Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC. If you
are a sole proprietor or independent contractor, apply for a payment agreement as
an individual.

Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/
Form1040X for information and updates.
Checking the status of an amended return.
Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of
Form 1040-X amended returns.
Note. It can take up to 3 weeks from the
date you filed your amended return for it to
show up in our system, and processing it can
take up to 16 weeks.
Filing past due tax returns. File all tax returns that are due, regardless of whether or not
you can pay in full. File your past due return the
same way and to the same location where you
would file an on-time return. If you have received a notice, make sure to send your past
due return to the location indicated on the notice you received. If you have a past due return,
filing your past due return now can help you do
the following.
• Avoid interest and penalties. File your
past due return and pay now to limit interest charges and late payment penalties.
• Claim a refund. You risk losing your refund if you don't file your return. If you are
due a refund for withholding or estimated
taxes, you must file your return to claim it
within 3 years of the return due date. The
same rule applies to a right to claim tax
credits such as the EIC. We hold income
tax refunds in cases where our records
show that one or more income tax returns
are past due. We hold them until we get
the past due return or receive an acceptable reason for not filing a past due return.
• Protect social security benefits. If you
are self-employed and do not file your federal income tax return, any self-employment income you earned will not be reported to the SSA and you will not receive
credits toward social security retirement or
disability benefits.
• Avoid issues obtaining loans. Loan approvals may be delayed if you don't file
your return. Copies of filed tax returns must
be submitted to financial institutions, mortgage lenders/brokers, etc., whenever you
want to buy or refinance a home, get a loan
for a business, or apply for federal aid for
higher education.
For more information, go to Filing Past Due
Tax Returns on IRS.gov.
Substitute return. If you fail to file voluntarily,
we may file a substitute return for you, based on
income reported to the IRS. This return might
not give you credit for deductions and exemptions you may be entitled to receive. We will
send you a Notice of Deficiency CP3219N
(90-day letter) proposing a tax assessment.
You will have 90 days to file your past due tax
return or file a petition in Tax Court. If you do
neither, we will proceed with our proposed
Chapter 12

How To Get Tax Help

Page 53

assessment. If you have received a Notice of
Deficiency CP3219N, you can't request an extension to file. Call us if you think you don't have
to file.
If any of the income listed is incorrect, you
may do the following.
• Contact us toll free at 866-681-4271 to let
us know.
• Contact the payer (source) of the income
to request a corrected Form W-2 or 1099.
• Attach the corrected forms when you send
us your completed tax returns.
If the IRS files a substitute return, it is still in
your best interest to file your own tax return to
take advantage of any exemptions, credits, and
deductions you are entitled to receive. The IRS
will generally adjust your account to reflect the
correct figures. If you filed a past due return and
have received a notice, you should send us a
copy of the past due return to the address contained in the notice. It takes approximately 6
weeks for us to process an accurately completed past due tax return.
Understanding an IRS notice or letter. Go to
IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information
about responding to an IRS notice or letter. We
will send you a notice or letter if any of the following apply.
• You have a balance due.
• You are due a larger or smaller refund.
• We have a question about your tax return.
• We need to verify your identity.
• We need additional information.
• We changed your return.
• We are notifying you of delays in processing your return.
When you receive correspondence from us,
read the entire notice or letter carefully. Typically, we only need a response if you don’t
agree with the information, we need additional
information, or you have a balance due. If we
changed your tax return, compare the information we provided in the notice or letter with the
information in your original return. If we receive
a return that we suspect is ID theft, we will ask
you to verify your identity using the web address provided in the letter.
If we ask for a response within a specific
time frame, you must respond on time to minimize additional interest and penalty charges or
to preserve your appeal rights if you don’t
agree. Pay as much as you can, even if you
can’t pay the full amount you owe. You can pay
online or apply for an OPA or OIC. See What if I
can’t pay now, earlier, or visit our Payments
page, IRS.gov/Payments, for more information.
We provide our contact phone number on
the top right-hand corner of our correspondence. Be sure you have your tax return and any
related documentation available when you call.
You can also write to us at the address in the
correspondence to explain why you disagree. If
you write, allow at least 30 days for our response. Keep a copy of all correspondence
with your tax records.
Note. You can use Schedule LEP (Form
1040), Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a preference to receive notices,
letters, or other written communications from
the IRS in an alternative language. The IRS's
commitment to LEP taxpayers is part of a
Page 54

Chapter 12

How To Get Tax Help

multi-year timeline that is scheduled to begin
providing translations in 2023. You will continue
to receive communications, including notices
and letters, in English until they are translated to
your preferred language.
Collection and enforcement actions. The
return we prepare for you (our proposed assessment) will lead to a tax bill, which, if unpaid,
will trigger the collection process. This can include such actions as a levy on your wages or
bank account or the filing of a notice of federal
tax lien. If you repeatedly do not file, you could
be subject to additional enforcement measures,
such as additional penalties and/or criminal
prosecution.
Contacting your local IRS office. Keep in
mind, many questions can be answered on
IRS.gov without visiting an IRS TAC. Go to
IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask
about most. If you still need help, IRS TACs
provide tax help when a tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs now provide
service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance that you can get the service you need
without long wait times. Before you visit, go to
IRS.gov/TACLocator to find the nearest TAC
and to check hours, available services, and appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app, under the Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and click on “Local Offices.”
Recognizing and reporting tax scams. The
Dirty Dozen is compiled annually by the IRS
and lists a variety of common scams taxpayers
may encounter any time during the year. Many
of these con games peak during filing season
as people prepare their tax returns or hire
someone to do so. Aggressive and threatening
phone calls by criminals impersonating IRS
agents remain near the top of the annual Dirty
Dozen list of tax scams for the filing season.
Scammers are able to alter caller identification (caller ID) numbers to make it look like the
IRS is calling. They use fake names and bogus
IRS identification or badge numbers. They often
leave “urgent” callback requests. They prey on
the most vulnerable people, such as the elderly,
newly arrived immigrants, and those whose first
language is not English. Scammers have been
known to impersonate agents of IRS Criminal
Investigation as well.
Be cautious when receiving suspicious calls
at home or at work from sources claiming to be
from the IRS, other agencies, or outside sources asking for money or credit card information,
or threatening to have you arrested for not paying. These callers may demand money or may
say you have a refund due and try to trick you
into sharing private information. These con artists can sound convincing when they call. They
may know a lot about you.
Here are five things the scammers often do
but the IRS will not do. Any one of these five
things is a tell-tale sign of a scam.
The IRS will never do any of the following.
• Call to demand immediate payment, nor
will the agency call about taxes owed without first having mailed you a bill.
• Demand that you pay taxes without giving
you the opportunity to question or appeal
the amount they say you owe.

• Require you to use a specific payment

method for your taxes, such as a prepaid
debit card.
• Ask for credit or debit card numbers over
the phone.
• Threaten to bring in local police or other
law-enforcement groups to have you arrested for not paying.

If you get a phone call from someone claiming to be from the IRS and asking for money, do
not disclose your personal information. You
should make notes of all information regarding
the call and/or the caller, for example, any caller
ID information, then hang up immediately and
do the following.
• If you know you owe taxes or think you
might owe, call the IRS toll free at
800-829-1040. The IRS assistors can help
you with a payment issue.
• If you know you don’t owe taxes or have no
reason to believe that you do, report the incident to the Treasury Inspector General
for Tax Administration (TIGTA) toll free at
800-366-4484 or at TIGTA.gov.
• If you’ve been targeted by this scam, also
contact the FTC and use their Report
Fraud Assistant at FTC.gov. Please add
“IRS Telephone Scam” to the comments of
your complaint.
Remember, too, the IRS does not use
email, text messages, or any social media to
discuss your personal tax issue involving bills or
refunds. If you get a phone call from someone
claiming to be from the IRS regarding a refund
owed to you and asking you for your SSN and
bank account information, do not give them this
information. You should make notes of all information regarding the call and/or the caller, for
example, any caller ID information, and report
this scam. For more information on reporting tax
scams, go to IRS.gov and type “scam” in the
search box. You can verify any potential refunds owed to you by contacting the IRS directly.

The Taxpayer Advocate
Service (TAS) Is Here To
Help You
What Is TAS?
TAS is an independent organization within the
IRS that helps taxpayers and protects taxpayer
rights. Their job is to ensure that every taxpayer
is treated fairly and that you know and understand your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of
Rights.

How Can You Learn About Your
Taxpayer Rights?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes 10 basic
rights that all taxpayers have when dealing with
the IRS. Go to TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov to
help you understand what these rights mean to
you and how they apply. These are your rights.
Know them. Use them.

You can find a list of your rights and the
IRS’s obligations to protect them in Pub. 1, Your
Rights as a Taxpayer. It includes the following.
1. The Right To Be Informed. Taxpayers
have the right to know what they need to
do to comply with the tax laws. They are
entitled to clear explanations of the laws
and IRS procedures in all tax forms, instructions, publications, notices, and correspondence. They have the right to be informed of IRS decisions about their tax
accounts and to receive clear explanations of the outcomes.
2. The Right to Quality Service. Taxpayers
have the right to receive prompt, courteous, and professional assistance in their
dealings with the IRS, to be spoken to in a
way they can easily understand, to receive
clear and easily understandable communications from the IRS, and to speak to a supervisor about inadequate service.
3. The Right To Pay No More Than the
Correct Amount of Tax. Taxpayers have
the right to pay only the amount of tax legally due, including interest and penalties,
and to have the IRS apply all tax payments
properly.
4. The Right To Challenge the IRS’s Position and Be Heard. Taxpayers have the
right to raise objections and provide additional documentation in response to formal
IRS actions or proposed actions, to expect
that the IRS will consider their timely objections and documentation promptly and
fairly, and to receive a response if the IRS
does not agree with their position.
5. The Right To Appeal an IRS Decision
in an Independent Forum. Taxpayers
are entitled to a fair and impartial administrative appeal of most IRS decisions, including many penalties, and have the right
to receive a written response regarding
the Office of Appeals’ decision. Taxpayers
generally have the right to take their cases
to court.
6. The Right to Finality. Taxpayers have
the right to know the maximum amount of
time they have to challenge the IRS’s position as well as the maximum amount of
time the IRS has to audit a particular tax
year or collect a tax debt. Taxpayers have
the right to know when the IRS has finished an audit.
7. The Right to Privacy. Taxpayers have
the right to expect that any IRS inquiry, examination, or enforcement action will comply with the law and be no more intrusive

than necessary, and will respect all due
process rights, including search and seizure protections, and will provide, where
applicable, a collection due process hearing.
8. The Right to Confidentiality. Taxpayers
have the right to expect that any information they provide to the IRS will not be disclosed unless authorized by the taxpayer
or by law. Taxpayers have the right to expect appropriate action will be taken
against employees, return preparers, and
others who wrongfully use or disclose
taxpayer return information.
9. The Right To Retain Representation.
Taxpayers have the right to retain an authorized representative of their choice to
represent them in their dealings with the
IRS. Taxpayers have the right to seek assistance from a Low Income Taxpayer
Clinic if they cannot afford representation.
10. The Right to a Fair and Just Tax System. Taxpayers have the right to expect
the tax system to consider facts and circumstances that might affect their underlying liabilities, ability to pay, or ability to provide information timely. Taxpayers have
the right to receive assistance from TAS if
they are experiencing financial difficulty or
if the IRS has not resolved their tax issues
properly and timely through its normal
channels.
The IRS is working to increase the number
of Americans who know and understand their
rights under the tax law. To expand awareness,
the IRS makes Pub. 1 available in multiple languages on IRS.gov. This important publication
is available in the following languages.
• English, Your Rights as a Taxpayer, at
IRS.gov/Pub/irs-pdf/P1.pdf.
• Chinese, Chinese- Your Rights as a
Taxpayer (Pub 1), at IRS.gov/Chinese.
• Korean, Korean- Your Rights as a
Taxpayer (Pub 1), at IRS.gov/Korean.
• Russian, Ваши права в качестве
налогоплательщика (Публикацию № 1),
at IRS.gov/Russian.
• Spanish, Publicación 1SP, Derechos del
Contribuyente, at IRS.gov/Spanish.
• Vietnamese, Quyền Hạn của Người Đóng
Thuế, Your Rights as a Taxpayer (Pub 1),
at IRS.gov/Vietnamese.
The IRS will include Pub. 1 when sending notices to taxpayers on a range of issues, such as
an audit or collection matter. All IRS facilities
will publicly display the rights for taxpayers and
employees to see.

What Can TAS Do for You?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you
can’t resolve with the IRS. And their service is
free. If you qualify for their assistance, you will
be assigned to one advocate who will work with
you throughout the process and will do everything possible to resolve your issue. TAS can
help you if:
• Your problem is causing financial difficulty
for you, your family, or your business;
• You face (or your business is facing) an
immediate threat of adverse action; or
• You’ve tried repeatedly to contact the IRS
but no one has responded, or the IRS
hasn’t responded by the date promised.

How Can You Reach TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of
Columbia, and Puerto Rico. Your local advocate’s number is in your local directory and at
TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us.
You
can also call them at 877-777-4778.

How Else Does TAS Help
Taxpayers?
TAS works to resolve large-scale problems that
affect many taxpayers. If you know of one of
these broad issues, report it to them at IRS.gov/
SAMS.

TAS for Tax Professionals
TAS can provide a variety of information for tax
professionals, including tax law updates and
guidance, TAS programs, and ways to let TAS
know about systemic problems you’ve seen in
your practice.

Low Income Taxpayer
Clinics (LITCs)
LITCs are independent from the IRS. LITCs
represent individuals whose income is below a
certain level and need to resolve tax problems
with the IRS, such as audits, appeals, and tax
collection disputes. In addition, LITCs can provide information about taxpayer rights and responsibilities in different languages for individuals who speak English as a second language.
Services are offered for free or a small fee for
eligible taxpayers. To find an LITC near you, go
to TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/about-us/LowIncome-Taxpayer-Clinics-LITC or see IRS Pub.
4134, Low Income Taxpayer Clinic List.

Chapter 12

How To Get Tax Help

Page 55

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

Claim a refund 53
Club dues 47
Collection and enforcement
A-Z Index for Business 50
actions 54
Advertising 46
Commitment fees 16
Amortization:
Compensation in excess of $1
Anti-abuse rule 34
million 9
Anti-churning rules 33
Computer software 32
Atmospheric pollution control
Constant-yield method, OID 16
facilities 35
Contested liability 7
Corporate organization costs 30 Contributions:
Dispositions of section 197
Charitable 47
intangibles 34
Political 49
Experimental costs 36
Copyrights 32
Geological and geophysical
Cost depletion 37
costs 35
Cost of getting lease 12, 31
How to deduct 29
Cost of goods sold 3
Incorrect amount deducted 34
Cost recovery 4
Partnership organization
Covenant not to compete 32
costs 30
Credit card convenience fees 47
Pollution control facilities 35
Reforestation costs 34
D
Reforestation expenses 27
Related person 33
De minimis OID 15
Research costs 36
Debt-financed distribution 15
Section 197 intangibles
Definitions:
defined 31
Business bad debt 42
Starting a businesscosts 29
Necessary expense 3
Startup costs 29
Ordinary expense 3
Anticipated liabilities 47
Section 197 intangibles 31
Assistance (See Tax help)
Demolition expenses 47
At-risk limits 6
Depletion:
Attorney fees 48
Mineral property 37
Authorized IRS e-file
Oil and gas wells 38
providers 51
Timber 41
Awards 9
Who can claim 37
Depreciation (See Cost recovery)
B
Development costs, miners 27
Bad debts:
Direct Pay 53
Defined 42
Dirty Dozen 54
How to treat 43
Disabled, improvements for 28
Recovery 43
Drilling and development
costs 26
Types of 42
Dues, membership 47
When worthless 42
Bonuses:
Employee 9
E
Royalties 40
e-File Form 940, 941, or 944 for
Bribes 47
Small Businesses 50
Business:
e-News 51
Assets 4
Economic interest 37
Books and records 32
Economic performance 6
Meal expenses 46
Education expenses 9, 47
Use of car 6, 47
Elderly, improvements for 28
Use of home 5
Electronic Federal Tax Payment
Business Services Online 50
System (EFTPS®) 53
Employee benefit programs 10
C
Employer ID Numbers (EINs) 50
Employment taxes 20
Campaign contribution 49
Employment Taxes 50
Capital expenses 4, 5
Additional Medicare Tax 20
Capitalization of interest 16
Self-employment tax:
Car allowance 45
Additional Medicare Tax 20
Car and truck expenses 47
Unemployment fund 20
Carrying charges 25
Entertainment 46
Charitable contributions 47
Entertainment expenses 10
Checking amended return
Experimentation costs 25, 36
status 53
Exploration costs 26
Choosing a tax return
preparer 51
Circulation costs, newspapers
and periodicals 27

A

Page 56

F

Capitalized 16
Carrying charge 25
Deductible 15
Forgone 17
Life insurance policies 16
Limitation 15
Not deductible 16
Refunds of 17
When to deduct 17
Internet-related expenses 48
Interview expenses 48
IRS social media 51
IRS Tax Professional
Partners 51
IRS Video Portal 50

Federal Relay Service 50
Fees:
Commitment 16
Legal and professional 48
Regulatory 48
Tax return preparation 48
Filing past due tax returns 53
Fines 48
Forgone interest 17
Form:
3115 34
4562 29
5213 7
8826 28, 29
T 41
Franchise 32, 47
Fringe benefits 9

Key person 16
Kickbacks 47

G

L

K

Leases:
Canceling 11
Cost of getting 12, 31
Improvements by lessee 13
Leveraged 12
Mineral 40
Oil and gas 40
Sales distinguished 11
Taxes on 12
Legal and professional fees 48
Letter 5071C 53
Licenses 32, 48
H
Life insurance coverage 10
Limit on deductions 7
Health plan 24
Line of credit 15
Heating equipment 5
Loans:
Home, business use of 5
Below-market 17
Discounted 17
I
Loans or advances 10
Identity theft 52
Lobbying expenses 48
Identity theft issues 52
Long-term care insurance 22
Impairment-related expenses 48 Losses 6, 7
Improvements 5
At-risk limits 6
By lessee 13
Net operating 6
For disabled and elderly 28
Passive activities 6
Income Taxes 19
Low Income Taxpayer Clinics
Accrual of contested income
(LITCs) 55
taxes 20
Federal income taxes 19
M
Foreign income taxes 20
Machinery
parts 5
State and local income taxes 19
Incorrect amount of amortization Making a tax payment 53
Meals 44
deducted 34
Meals and entertainment 46
Independent Contractor
Meals and lodging 10
(Self-Employed) or
Employee? 50
Methods of accounting 6
Information Return Filing
Mining:
Requirements 50
Depletion 40
Insurance 24
Development costs 27
Capitalized premiums 24
Exploration costs 26
Deductible premiums 21
More than one health plan and
Nondeductible premiums 24
business 24
Intangible drilling costs 26
Mortgage 15
Intangibles, amortization 31
Moving expenses, machinery 48
Interest:
Allocation of 14
N
Below-market 17
Natural gas 40
Business expense for 13
Gas wells 40
Geological and geophysical
costs:
Development, oil and gas 35
Exploration, oil and gas 35
Geothermal wells 26, 40
Gifts, nominal value 9
Going into business 4, 29
Goodwill 32
Gross income, not-for-profit
activity 7

Publication 535 (2022)

Nonqualifying intangibles 32
Not-for-profit activities 7
Not-for-profit activity, gross
income 7
Notice of Deficiency
CP3219N 53

O
Office in home 5
Oil and gas wells:
Depletion 38
Drilling costs 26
Partnerships 39
S corporations 39
Online payment agreement 53
Online Tools & Educational
Products 50
Optional safe harbor method 6
Optional write-off method:
Circulation costs 36
Experimental costs 36
Intangible drilling and
development costs 36
Mining exploration and
development costs 36
Research costs 36
Organization costs:
Corporate 30
Partnership 30
Organizational costs 27
Original issue discount 15
Other coverage 23
Other Taxes 20
Excise taxes 20
Franchise taxes 20
Fuel taxes 20
Occupational taxes 20
Personal property taxes 20
Sales taxes 20
Outplacement services 48

P
Passive activities 6
Payments in kind 6
Penalties 15
Deductible 48
Nondeductible 48

Publication 535 (2022)

Prepayment 15
Per diem and car allowances 45
Percentage depletion 37
Political contributions 49
Pollution control facilities 35
Prepaid expense 6
Extends useful life 24
Interest 17
Rent 11
Prepayment penalty 15
Presumption of profit 7
Publication 1, Your Rights as a
Taxpayer 54, 55
Publications (See Tax help)

Q
Qualified long-term care
insurance:
Benefits received 23
Chronically ill individual 23
Qualified long-term care
insurance contract 22
Qualified long-term care
services 22

R
Real Estate Taxes 19
Assessments Local 19
Charges for services 19
Electing to ratably accrue to a
definite period 19
Form 3115 19
Making the election to ratably
accrue the taxes 19
Purchase or sale of real
estate 19
Separate elections to ratably
accrue for each separate
trade or business and for
nonbusiness activities 19
Recapture:
Exploration expenses 26
Timber property 35
Recordkeeping 39
Recovery of amount deducted 6
Refiners who cannot claim
percentage depletion 38
Reforestation costs 27, 34

Regulatory fees 48
Reimbursements 44
Business expenses 11
Mileage 45
Nonaccountable plan 46
Per diem 45
Related persons:
Anti-churning rules 33
Coal or iron ore 40
Payments to 7, 17
Refiners 38
Unreasonable rent 11
Reminder:
Premium tax credit 21
Removal 28
Rent expense, capitalizing 13
Repairs 49
Repayments (claim of right) 49
Reporting abusive tax
preparers 52
Research costs 25, 36

S
Scammers 54
Section 179 expense deduction
(See Cost recovery)
Self-employed health insurance
deduction 21
Self-Employed Health Insurance
Deduction Worksheet 23
Self-Employed Individuals Tax
Center 50
Self-insurance, reserve for 24
Sick pay 11
Small Business Events 50
Small Business Forms and
Publications 50
Standard meal allowance 45
Standard mileage rate 45
Standby charges 16
startup costs 27
Startup costs 29
Substitute return 53
Supplies and materials 50

T

Tax information in other
languages 51
Tax preparation 50
Tax preparation fees 48
Tax questions 51
Tax scams 54
Taxes 12, 18
Carrying charge 25
Leased property 12
When To Deduct Taxes 18
Taxpayer Advocate Service
(TAS) 54
Taxpayer Assistance Center
(TAC) locator 54
Telephone 50
Timber 34, 41
Tools 5
Trademark, trade name 32, 47
transcript or copy of a return 52
Transportation (commuting)
benefits 10
Travel 44

U
Understanding an IRS notice or
letter 54
Unpaid expenses, related
person 17
Utilities 50

V
Vacation pay 11

W
Wages:
Property 11
Tests for deducting pay 8
Welfare benefit funds 10
When To Deduct Premiums 24
When To Deduct Taxes:
Carrying charges 19
Limitation on acceleration of
accrual of taxes 19
Refunds of taxes 19
Uniform capitalization rules 19

Tax help 50

Page 57

