Publication 561
(Rev. December 2025)

Determining
the Value of
Donated
Property

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments
related to Pub. 561, such as legislation enacted
after it was published, go to IRS.gov/Pub561.

Reminders
Disallowance of deduction for certain conservation contributions by partnerships
and S corporations. If you are an ultimate
member of a partnership or an S corporation
and the amount of the partnership’s or S corporation’s qualified conservation contribution exceeds 2.5 times the sum of each ultimate member’s relevant basis, then the contribution is not
treated as a qualified conservation contribution.
Unless the conservation contribution meets an
exception, it will be disallowed. See Disallowance of deductions for certain conservation
contributions by partnerships or S corporations,
later.

Introduction
This publication is designed to help donors and
appraisers determine the value of property
(other than cash) that is given to qualified organizations. It sets forth general valuation principles applicable to the income, gift, and estate
taxes with a focus in some areas on the valuation of noncash property contributed after January 1, 2019, to a charity that qualifies under
section 170(c) for an income tax charitable contribution deduction. It also explains, in general,
what kind of information you must have to support the income tax charitable contribution deduction you claim on your return.
This publication does not discuss how to figure the amount of your deduction for charitable
contributions or written records and substantiation required. See Pub. 526, Charitable Contributions, for this information.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome
your comments about this publication and suggestions for future editions.
You can send us comments through
IRS.gov/FormComments. Or you can write to
the Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and
Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW,
IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to
each comment received, we do appreciate your
feedback and will consider your comments and
suggestions as we revise our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions.
If you have a tax question not answered by this
publication or the How To Get Tax Help section
at the end of this publication, go to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the
search feature or viewing the categories listed.

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Feb 26, 2026

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications. Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download
current and prior-year forms, instructions, and
publications.

Publication 561 (Rev. 12-2025) Catalog Number 15109Q
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

Ordering tax forms, instructions, and
publications. Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order prior-year
forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon
as possible. Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
526 Charitable Contributions
526

Forms (and Instructions)
8282 Donee Information Return
8282

8283 Noncash Charitable Contributions
8283

8283-V Payment Voucher for Filing Fee
Under Section 170(f)(13)
8283-V

See How To Get Tax Help near the end of this
publication for information about getting these
publications and forms.

What Is Fair Market
Value (FMV)?
To figure how much you may deduct for property that you contribute, you must first determine its FMV on the date of the contribution.
FMV. FMV is the price that property would sell
for on the open market. It is the price that would
be agreed on between a willing buyer and a willing seller, with neither being required to act, and
both having reasonable knowledge of the relevant facts. In addition to this general rule, there
are special rules used to value certain types of
property such as remainder interests, annuities,
interests for life or for a term of years, and reversions, discussed below.
Example 1. If you give an item of used
clothing that is in good used condition or better
to the Salvation Army, the FMV would be the
price that typical buyers actually pay for clothing
of this age, condition, style, and use. Usually,
such items are worth far less than what you paid
for them.
Example 2. If you donate jewelry to a charity, the FMV of the jewelry is not the value an
appraiser determined in an appraisal you obtained so that your insurance company would
reimburse you for the insured value of the jewelry in case the jewelry is stolen or destroyed.
This insured value does not reflect what a willing buyer and willing seller would pay for the
jewelry on the date of the contribution to charity.
It reflects only the replacement cost of the jewelry when you obtained the appraisal. See Replacement Cost, later.
Factors. In making and supporting the valuation of property, all factors affecting value are
relevant and must be considered. These include, but are not limited to:
• The cost or selling price of the item,
• Sales of comparable properties,
2

• Replacement cost, and
• Opinions of professional appraisers.
These factors are discussed later. Also, see
Table 1 for a summary of questions to ask as
you consider each factor.
Date of contribution. Ordinarily, the date of a
contribution is the date on which the property is
delivered to the charity or the title transfer date,
provided you do not retain any right to or interest in the property that would limit the charity’s
use of the property.
Stock. If you deliver, without any conditions, a properly endorsed stock certificate to a
qualified organization or to an agent of the organization, the date of the contribution is the
date of delivery. If the certificate is mailed and
received through the regular mail, it is the date
of mailing. If you deliver the certificate to a bank
or broker acting as your agent or to the issuing
corporation or its agent, for transfer into the
name of the organization, the date of the contribution is the date the stock is transferred on the
books of the corporation.
Options. If you grant an option to a qualified organization to buy real property, you have
not made a charitable contribution until the organization exercises the option. The amount of
the contribution is the FMV of the property on
the date the option is exercised minus the exercise price.
Example. You grant an option to a local
university, which is a qualified organization, to
buy real property. Under the option, the university could buy the property at any time during a
2-year period for $40,000. The FMV of the property on the date the option is granted is
$50,000.
In the following tax year, the university exercises the option. The FMV of the property on
the date the option is exercised is $55,000.
Therefore, you have made a charitable contribution of $15,000 ($55,000, the FMV, minus
$40,000, the exercise price) in the tax year the
option is exercised.

Determining FMV
Determining the value of donated property depends upon many factors. You should consider
all the facts and circumstances connected with
the property, including any recent transactions,
in determining value. Value may also be based
on desirability, use, condition, scarcity, and market demand for that property. Depending on the
type of property, there may be other characteristics that are relevant in determining its value.

Cost or Selling Price of the
Donated Property
The cost of the property to you or the actual
selling price received by the qualified organization may be the best indication of its FMV. However, because conditions in the market change,
the cost or selling price of property may have
less weight if the property was not bought or
sold at a time that is reasonably close to the
date of contribution.

The cost or selling price is a good indication
of the property’s value if:
• The purchase or sale took place close to
the valuation date in an open market,
• The purchase or sale was at “arm’s-length,”
• The buyer and seller knew all relevant
facts,
• The buyer and seller did not have to act,
and
• The economic conditions in the open market did not change between the date of
purchase or sale and the valuation date.
Example. Bailey Morgan, who is not a
dealer in gems, bought an assortment of gems
for $5,000 from a promoter. The promoter
claimed that the price was “wholesale” even
though this dealer and other dealers made similar sales at similar prices to other persons who
were not dealers. The promoter said that if Bailey kept the gems for more than 1 year and then
gave them to charity, Bailey could claim a charitable contribution deduction of $15,000, which,
according to the promoter, would be the value
of the gems at the time of contribution. Bailey
gave the gems to a qualified charity 13 months
after buying them.
The selling price for these gems had not
changed from the date of purchase to the date
Bailey donated them to charity. The best evidence of FMV depends on actual transactions
and not on some artificial estimate. The $5,000
paid by Bailey and others is, therefore, the best
evidence of the maximum FMV of the gems.
Terms of the purchase or sale. The terms of
the purchase or sale should be considered in
determining FMV if they influenced the price.
These terms include any restrictions, understandings, or covenants limiting the use or disposition of the property.
Rate of increase or decrease in value. Unless you can show that there were unusual circumstances, it is assumed that the increase or
decrease in the value of your donated property
from your cost has been at a reasonable rate.
For time adjustments, an appraiser may consider published price indexes for information on
general price trends, building costs, commodity
costs, securities, and works of art sold at auction in arm’s-length sales.
Example. Corey Brown bought a painting
for $10,000. Thirteen months later, Corey gave
it to an art museum, claiming a charitable contribution deduction of $15,000 on their tax return.
The appraisal of the painting should include information showing that there were unusual circumstances that justify a 50% increase in value
for the 13 months Corey held the property.
Arm’s-length offer. An arm’s-length offer to
buy the property close to the valuation date may
help to prove its value if the person making the
offer was willing and able to complete the transaction. To rely on an offer, you should be able to
show proof of the offer and the specific amount
to be paid. Offers to buy property other than the
donated item will help to determine value if the
other property is reasonably similar to the donated property.

Publication 561 (12-2025)

Table 1. Factors That Affect FMV
IF the factor you are
considering is...
cost or selling price

Opinions of Professional
Appraisers

THEN you should ask these questions...
Was the purchase or sale of the property reasonably close to the date of contribution?
Was any increase or decrease in value, as compared to your cost, at a reasonable
rate?
Do the terms of purchase or sale limit what can be done with the property?
Was there an arm’s-length offer to buy the property close to the valuation date?

sales of comparable
properties

How similar is the property sold to the property donated?

replacement cost

What would it cost to replace the donated property?

How close is the date of sale to the valuation date?
Was the sale at arm’s-length?
What was the condition of the market at the time of sale?

Is there a reasonable relationship between replacement cost and FMV?
Is the supply of the donated property more or less than the demand for it?
opinions of professional
appraisers

Is the professional appraiser knowledgeable and competent?
Is the opinion thorough and supported by facts and experience?

Sales of Comparable Properties
The sales prices of properties similar to the donated property are often important in determining the FMV. The weight to be given to each
sale depends on the following.
• The degree of similarity between the property sold and the donated property.
• The time of the sale—whether it was close
to the valuation date.
• The circumstances of the sale—whether it
was at arm’s-length with a knowledgeable
buyer and seller, with neither having to act.
• Whether the comparable sale is from the
same market area as the donated property.
• The conditions of the market in which the
sale was made—whether unusually inflated or deflated.
The comparable sales method of valuing real
estate is explained later under Valuation of Various Kinds of Property.
Example 1. Martha Black, who is not a
book dealer, paid a promoter $10,000 for 500
copies of a single edition of a modern translation of a religious book. The promoter had
claimed that the price was considerably less
than the “retail” price and gave Martha a statement that the books had a total retail value of
$30,000. The promoter advised that if Martha
kept the books for more than 1 year and then
gave them to a qualified organization, Martha
could claim a charitable contribution deduction
for the “retail” price of $30,000. Thirteen months
later, all the books were given to a house of worship from a list provided by the promoter. At the
time of the donation, wholesale dealers were
selling similar quantities of books to the general
public for $10,000.
Because Martha was not a dealer, she could
not sell the books for their retail value. The FMV
of the books is $10,000, the price at which similar quantities of books were being sold to the
general public by wholesale dealers at the time
of the contribution.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in
Example 1, except that the promoter gave Martha Black a second option. The promoter said
that if Martha wanted a charitable contribution
Publication 561 (12-2025)

deduction within 1 year of the purchase, Martha
could buy the 500 books at the “retail” price of
$30,000, paying only $10,000 in cash and giving a promissory note for the remaining
$20,000. The principal and interest on the note
would not be due for 12 years. According to the
promoter, Martha could then, within 1 year of
the purchase, give the books to a qualified organization and claim the full $30,000 retail price
as a charitable contribution. Martha purchased
the books under the second option and, 3
months later, gave them to a house of worship,
which will use the books for religious purposes.
At the time of the gift, the promoter was selling similar lots of books for either $10,000 or
$30,000. The difference between the two prices
was solely at the discretion of the buyer. The
promoter was a willing seller for $10,000.
Therefore, the value of Martha’s contribution of
the books is $10,000, the amount at which similar lots of books could be purchased from the
promoter by members of the general public.

Replacement Cost
The cost of buying, building, or manufacturing
property similar to the donated item may be
considered in determining FMV. However, there
must be a reasonable relationship between the
replacement cost and the FMV.
The replacement cost is the amount it would
cost to replace the donated item on the valuation date. In most cases, there is no relationship
between the replacement cost and the FMV. If
the supply of the donated property is more or
less than the demand for it, the replacement
cost becomes less important.
To determine the replacement cost of the
donated property, find the “estimated replacement cost new.” Then subtract from this figure
an amount for depreciation due to the physical
condition and obsolescence of the donated
property. You should be able to show the relationship between the depreciated replacement
cost and the FMV, as well as how you arrived at
the “estimated replacement cost new.”

Generally, the weight given to a professional appraiser’s opinion on matters such as the authenticity of a coin or a work of art, or the most profitable and best use of a piece of real estate,
depends on the knowledge and competence of
the professional appraiser and the thoroughness with which the opinion is supported by experience and facts. For a professional appraiser’s opinion to deserve much weight, the facts
must support the opinion. For additional information, see Appraisal, later.

Problems in Determining
FMV
There are a number of problems in determining
the FMV of donated property.

Unusual Market Conditions
The sale price of the property itself in an
arm’s-length transaction in an open market is
often the best evidence of its value. When you
rely on sales of comparable property, the sales
must have been made in an open market. If
those sales were made in a market that was artificially supported or stimulated so as not to be
truly representative, the prices at which the
sales were made will not indicate the FMV.
For example, liquidation sale prices usually
do not indicate the FMV. Also, sales of stock under unusual circumstances, such as sales of
small lots, forced sales, and sales in a restricted
market, may not represent the FMV.

Selection of Comparable Sales
Using sales of comparable property is an important method for determining the FMV of donated property. However, the amount of weight
given to a sale depends on the degree of similarity between the comparable and the donated
properties. The degree of similarity must be
close enough so that this selling price would
have been given consideration by reasonably
well-informed buyers or sellers of the property.
Example. You give a rare, old book to your
former college. The book is a third edition and is
in poor condition because of a missing back
cover. You discover that there was a sale for
$300, near the valuation date, of a first edition of
the book that was in good condition. Although
the contents are the same, the books are not at
all similar because of the different editions and
their physical condition. Little consideration
would be given to the selling price of the $300
property by knowledgeable buyers or sellers.

Future Events
You may not consider unexpected events happening after your donation of property in making
the valuation. You may consider only the facts
known at the time of the gift and those that
could reasonably be expected at the time of the
gift.
3

Example. You give a remainder interest in
a farm to a qualified charity. The transfer provides that your mother will have the right to all
income and full use of the farm for her life. Even
though your mother dies 1 week after the transfer, the value of the property on the date it is
given is its present value, subject to the life interest as estimated from actuarial tables. You
may not take a higher deduction because the
charity received full use and possession of the
land only 1 week after the transfer.

Using Past Events To Predict the
Future
A common error is to rely too much on past
events that do not fairly reflect the probable future earnings and FMV.
Example. You give all your rights in a successful patent to your favorite charity. Your records show that before the valuation date there
were three stages in the patent’s history of earnings. First, there was rapid growth in earnings
when the invention was introduced. Then, there
was a period of high earnings when the invention was being exploited. Finally, there was a
decline in earnings when competing inventions
were introduced. The entire history of earnings
may be relevant in estimating the future earnings. However, the appraiser must not rely too
much on the stage of rapid growth in earnings
or of high earnings. The market conditions at
those times do not represent the condition of
the market at the valuation date. What is most
significant is the trend of decline in earnings up
to the valuation date. For more information
about donations of patents, see Patents, later.

Valuation of Various
Kinds of Property
This section contains information on determining the FMV of ordinary kinds of donated property. For information on appraisals, see Appraisal, later.

Household Items
The FMV of used household items is usually
much lower than the price paid when new.
Household items include furniture, furnishings,
electronics, appliances, linens, and similar
items. Household items do not include paintings, antiques, objects of art, jewelry, gems, and
collections like stamp and coin collections.
Such used property may have little or no market
value because it may be out of style.
You cannot take an income tax charitable
contribution deduction for household items unless they are in good used condition or better.
The one exception to this is a household item
that is not in good used condition or better for
which you claim an income tax charitable contribution deduction of more than $500. In this
case, you must obtain a qualified appraisal valuing the item and complete a Form 8283. See
Deduction over $500 for certain clothing or
household items, later.
If the property is valuable because it is old or
unique, see Art and Collectibles, later.
4

Used Clothing
Used clothing and other personal items are usually worth far less than the price you paid for
them. Valuation of items of clothing does not
lend itself to fixed formulas or methods.
The price that buyers of used items actually
pay in used clothing stores, such as consignment or thrift shops, is an indication of the
value.
You cannot take an income tax charitable
contribution deduction for an item of clothing
unless it is in good used condition or better. An
item of clothing that is not in good used condition or better for which you claim an income tax
charitable contribution deduction of more than
$500 requires a qualified appraisal and a completed Form 8283. See Deduction over $500 for
certain clothing or household items, later.

Art and Collectibles
Your income tax charitable contribution donation of art and collectibles for which you claim a
deduction of more than $5,000 must be supported by a qualified appraisal and a Form 8283.
See Qualified Appraisal, later.
Art valued at $20,000 or more. If you claim a
deduction of $20,000 or more for an income tax
charitable contribution donation of art, you must
attach the qualified appraisal for the art to the
Form 8283. A photograph of a size and of sufficient quality fully showing the object, preferably
a high-resolution digital image, must be provided if requested.
Art valued at $50,000 or more. If you donate
an item of art that has been appraised at
$50,000 or more, you can request a Statement
of Value for that item from the IRS. You must request the statement before filing the tax return
that reports the donation. Your request must include the following.
• A copy of a qualified appraisal of the item.
See Qualified Appraisal, later.
• A user fee of $8,400 for one to three items
and $800 for each additional item paid
through Pay.gov. A payment confirmation
will be provided to you through the Pay.gov
portal and you should submit the payment
confirmation with your Statement of Value
request.
• A completed Form 8283, Section B.
• The location of the IRS territory that has
examination responsibility for your return.
If your request lacks essential information, you
will be notified and given 30 days to provide the
missing information.
Send your request to:
Internal Revenue Service/Appeals
Attn: Art Appraisal Services
Request for Statement of Value
1111 Constitution Ave. NW, Room 3615
Washington, DC 20224-0002
Refunds. You can withdraw your request
for a Statement of Value at any time before it is
issued. However, the IRS will not refund the
user fee if you do.

If the IRS declines to issue a Statement of
Value in the interest of efficient tax administration, the IRS will refund the user fee.
Art. Because many kinds of art may be the
subject of a charitable donation, it is not possible to discuss all of the possible types in this
publication. Most common are paintings, sculptures, watercolors, prints, drawings, ceramics,
antiques, decorative arts, textiles, carpets, silver, rare manuscripts, and historical memorabilia. If you own both the art and the copyright to
the art, in some cases your charitable contribution deduction may be denied unless you donate both the art and its copyright.
Authenticity. The professional appraiser
should use reasonable due diligence to determine or confirm the authenticity of a donated
artwork. This due diligence may include verifying whether the artwork is included in the relevant catalogue raisonné (a scholarly listing of all
known works by a specific artist), has an assigned foundation number when relevant, is included in a comprehensive online archive, or
whether the artwork has an accompanying certificate of authenticity from a recognized authority or expert on the artist.
Physical condition. The physical condition and extent of restoration are both relevant
in determining the valuation of art and antiques.
These factors should be addressed in the appraisal. An antique in damaged condition lacking the "original brasses" may be worth much
less than a similar piece in excellent condition.
Collectibles. Because many kinds of collectibles may be the subject of a charitable donation, it is not possible to discuss all of the possible types in this publication. Most common are
rare books, autographs, sports memorabilia,
dolls, manuscripts, stamps, coins, guns, gems,
jewelry, music and entertainment memorabilia,
comics, toys, and natural history items.
Reference material. Publications available to help you determine the value of many
kinds of collections include catalogs, dealers’
price lists, and specialized hobby periodicals.
When using one of these price guides, you
must use the current edition at the date of contribution.
Caution: These sources are not always reliable indicators of FMV and should be supported by other evidence.
For example, a dealer may sell an item for
much less than is shown on a price list, particularly after the item has remained unsold for a
long time. The price an item sold for in an auction may have been the result of a rigged sale.
The appraiser must analyze the reference material and recognize and make adjustments for
misleading entries. If you are claiming an income tax charitable contribution deduction for
the donation of a collection valued at more than
$5,000, you must obtain a qualified appraisal
and complete a Form 8283.
Gems and jewelry. Gems and jewelry are
of such a specialized nature that it is almost always necessary to get an appraisal by a specialized jewelry appraiser. The appraisal should
describe, among other things, the style of the
Publication 561 (12-2025)

jewelry, the cut and setting of the gem, and
whether it is now in fashion. The stone’s coloring, weight, cut, brilliance, and flaws should be
reported and analyzed. Sentimental personal
value has no effect on FMV. But if the jewelry
was owned by a famous person, its value might
increase. If you had the jewelry made, the labor
costs you incurred in having it made may have
little or no effect on its FMV. GIA certificates and
color photos should be included in jewelry appraisals.
Stamp collections. Most libraries have
catalogs or other books that report the publisher’s estimate of values. Generally, two price levels are shown for each stamp: the price postmarked and the price not postmarked. Contact
an appraiser for assistance with properly valuing stamp collections.
Coin collections. Many catalogs and other
reference materials show the writer’s or publisher’s opinion of the value of coins on or near the
date of the publication. Like many other collectors’ items, the value of a coin depends on the
demand for it, its age, and its rarity. Another important factor is the coin’s condition. For example, there is a great difference in the value of a
coin that is in mint condition and a similar coin
that is only in good condition.
Use caution when consulting price guides
for coins as only a trained grader can distinguish the difference between various Mint State
grades and circulated grades including extremely fine, very fine, fine, very good, good,
fair, or poor. The difference in value between
one grade and another could be vast.
Books. The value of books is usually determined by selecting comparable sales and adjusting the prices according to the differences
between the comparable sales and the item being evaluated. This can be difficult to do and,
except for a collection of little value, should be
done by a specialized appraiser.
Modest value of collection. If the collection you are donating is of modest value, not requiring a written appraisal, the following information may help you in determining the FMV.
A book that is very old or very rare is not
necessarily valuable. There are many books
that are very old or rare but that have little or no
market value.
Condition of book. The condition of a
book may have a great influence on its value.
Collectors are interested in items that are in
fine, or at least good, condition. When a book
has a missing page, a loose binding, tears, or
stains, or is otherwise in poor condition, its
value is greatly lowered.
Other factors. Some other factors in the
valuation of a book are the kind of binding
(leather, cloth, paper), page edges, and illustrations (drawings and photographs). Collectors
usually want first editions of books. However,
because of changes or additions, other editions
are sometimes worth as much as or more than
the first edition.
Manuscripts, autographs, diaries, and
similar items. When these items are handwritten, or at least signed by famous people,
they are often in demand and are valuable.
However, the noteworthiness of an author is not
Publication 561 (12-2025)

the only determining factor; the writings of unknown or obscure authors may also be of value
if they are of unusual historical or literary importance. Determining the value of such material is
difficult. For example, there may be a great difference in value between two diaries that were
kept by a famous person—one kept during
childhood and the other during a later period in
their life. The appraiser determines a value in
these cases by applying knowledge and judgment to such factors as comparable sales and
market conditions.

Cars, Boats, and Aircraft
You can only receive a deduction for the contribution of certain cars, boats, and aircraft known
as “qualified vehicles” to a qualified organization. Also, there are many rules you need to
comply with to obtain this deduction. See Pub.
526 for more details. In general, a qualified vehicle is a car or any motor vehicle manufactured
mainly for use on public streets, roads, and
highways; a boat; or an airplane.
Certain commercial firms and trade organizations publish monthly or seasonal guides for
different regions of the country, containing complete dealer sale prices or dealer average prices for recent model years. Prices are reported
for each make, model, and year. These guides
also provide estimates for adjusting for unusual
equipment, unusual mileage, and physical condition. The prices are not “official,” and these
publications are not considered an appraisal of
any specific donated property. But they do provide clues for making an appraisal and suggest
relative prices for comparison with current sales
and offerings in your area.
These publications are sometimes available
from public libraries or at a bank, credit union,
or finance company. You can also find pricing
information about used cars on the Internet.
An acceptable measure of the FMV of a donated car, boat, or airplane is an amount not in
excess of the price listed in a used vehicle pricing guide for a private party sale, not the dealer
retail value, of a similar vehicle. However, the
FMV may be less than that amount if the vehicle
has engine trouble, body damage, high mileage, or any type of excessive wear. The FMV of
a donated vehicle is the same as the price listed
in a used vehicle pricing guide for a private
party sale only if the guide lists a sales price for
a vehicle that is the same make, model, and
year, sold in the same area, in the same condition, with the same or similar options or accessories, and with the same or similar warranties
as the donated vehicle.
Example. You donate a used car in poor
condition to a local high school for use by students studying car repair. A used car guide
shows the dealer retail value for this type of car
in poor condition is $1,600. However, the guide
shows the price for a private party sale of the
car is only $750. The FMV of the car is considered to be no more than $750.
Boats. Except for inexpensive small boats, the
valuation of boats should be based on an appraisal by a marine surveyor because the physical condition is so critical to the value.

More information. Your deduction for a donated car, boat, or airplane is generally limited to
the gross proceeds from its sale by the qualified
organization. This rule applies if the claimed
value of the donated vehicle is more than $500.
In certain cases, you may be able to deduct the
vehicle’s FMV. For details and filing requirements, see Pub. 526.

Inventory
If you donate any inventory item to a charitable
organization, the amount of your deductible
contribution is generally the FMV of the item,
minus any gain you would have realized if you
had sold the item at its FMV on the date of the
gift. For more information, see Pub. 526.

Patents
To determine the FMV of a patent, you must
take into account, among other factors:
• Whether the patented technology has
been made obsolete by other technology;
• Any restrictions on the donee’s use of or
ability to transfer the patented technology;
and
• The length of time remaining before the
patent expires.
See Pub. 526 for a discussion of the available charitable contribution deduction for the
contribution of a patent and other intellectual
property like copyrights.

Stocks and Bonds
The value of stocks and bonds is the FMV of a
share or bond on the valuation date. See Date
of contribution, earlier, under What Is Fair Market Value (FMV)?
Selling prices on valuation date. If there is
an active public market for the contributed
stocks or bonds on a stock exchange, in an
over-the-counter market, or elsewhere, the FMV
of each share or bond is the average price between the highest and lowest quoted selling prices on the valuation date. For example, if the
highest selling price for a share was $11 and
the lowest $9, the average price is $10. You get
the average price by adding $11 and $9 and dividing the sum by 2.
No sales on valuation date. If there were
no sales on the valuation date but there were
sales within a reasonable period before and after the valuation date, you determine FMV by
taking the average price between the highest
and lowest sales prices on the nearest date before and on the nearest date after the valuation
date. Then you weight these averages in inverse order by the respective number of trading
days between the selling dates and the valuation date.
Example. On the day you gave stock to a
qualified organization, there were no sales of
the stock. Sales of the stock nearest the valuation date took place 2 trading days before the
valuation date at an average selling price of $10
and 3 trading days after the valuation date at an
average selling price of $15. The FMV on the
valuation date was $12, figured as follows.
5

[(3 x $10)

+

(2 x $15)]

÷

5

=

$12

Listings on more than one stock exchange. Stocks or bonds listed on more than
one stock exchange are valued based on the
prices of the exchange on which they are principally dealt. This applies if these prices are published in a generally available listing or publication of general circulation. If this is not
applicable and the stocks or bonds are reported
on a composite listing of combined exchanges
in a publication of general circulation, use the
composite list. See also Unavailable prices,
later.
Bid and asked prices on valuation date. If
there were no sales within a reasonable period
before and after the valuation date, the FMV is
the average price between the bona fide bid
and asked prices on the valuation date.
Example. Although there were no sales of
Blue Corporation stock on the valuation date,
bona fide bid and asked prices were available
on that date of $14 and $16, respectively. The
FMV is $15, the average price between the bid
and asked prices.
No prices on valuation date. If there
were no prices available on the valuation date,
you determine FMV by taking the average prices between the bona fide bid and asked prices
on the closest trading date before and after the
valuation date. Both dates must be within a reasonable period. Then you weight these averages in inverse order by the respective number
of trading days between the bid and asked
dates and the valuation date.
Example. On the day you gave stock to a
qualified organization, no prices were available.
Bona fide bid and asked prices 3 days before
the valuation date were $10 and 2 days after the
valuation date were $15. The FMV on the valuation date is $13, figured as follows.
[(2 x $10)

+

(3 x $15)]

÷

5

=

$13

Prices only before or after valuation date,
but not both. If no selling prices or bona fide
bid and asked prices are available on a date
within a reasonable period before the valuation
date, but are available on a date within a reasonable period after the valuation date, or vice
versa, then the average price between the highest and lowest of such available prices may be
treated as the value.
Large blocks of stock. When a large block of
stock is put on the market, it may lower the selling price of the stock if the supply is greater
than the demand. On the other hand, market
forces may exist that will afford higher prices for
large blocks of stock. Because of the many factors to be considered, determining the value of
large blocks of stock usually requires the help of
experts specializing in underwriting large quantities of securities or in trading in the securities
of the industry of which the particular company
is a part.
Unavailable prices. If selling prices (or bid
and asked prices) are not available, you should
work with a professional appraiser to determine
6

the FMV of the bond or stock on the valuation
date because the analysis requires consideration of factors similar to those used to value an
Interest in a Business below.

sale and selling price, a property description,
the amount and terms of mortgages, property
surveys, the assessed value, the tax rate, and
the assessor’s appraised FMV.

Restricted securities. Some classes of stock
cannot be traded publicly because of restrictions imposed by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, or by the corporate charter or a
trust agreement. These restricted securities
usually trade at a discount in relation to freely
traded securities.
You should work with a professional because the analysis requires consideration of
factors similar to those used to value an interest
in a business. See Interest in a Business below.

The comparable selling prices must be adjusted to account for differences between the
sale property and the donated property. Because differences of opinion may arise between
appraisers as to the degree of comparability
and the amount of the adjustment considered
necessary for comparison purposes, an appraiser should document each item of adjustment.

Real Estate
Because each piece of real estate is unique and
its valuation is complicated, a detailed appraisal
by a professional appraiser is necessary.
The appraiser must be thoroughly trained in
the application of appraisal principles and
theory. In some instances, the opinions of
equally qualified appraisers may carry unequal
weight, such as when one appraiser has a better knowledge of local conditions.
The appraisal report must contain a complete description of the property, such as street
address, legal description, and lot and block
number, as well as physical features, condition,
and dimensions. The use to which the property
is put, zoning and permitted uses, and its potential use for other higher and better uses are also
relevant.
In general, there are three main approaches
to the valuation of real estate. An appraisal may
require the combined use of two or three methods rather than one method only.

1. Comparable Sales
The comparable sales method compares the
donated property with several similar properties
that have been sold. The selling prices, after adjustments for differences in date of sale, size,
condition, and location, would then indicate the
estimated FMV of the donated property.
If the comparable sales method is used to
determine the value of unimproved real property
(land without significant buildings, structures, or
any other improvements that add to its value),
the appraiser should consider the following factors when comparing the potential comparable
property and the donated property.
• Location, size, and zoning or use restrictions.
• Accessibility and road frontage, and available utilities and water rights.
• Riparian rights (right of access to and use
of the water by owners of land on the bank
of a river) and existing easements,
rights-of-way, leases, etc.
• Soil characteristics, vegetative cover, and
status of mineral rights.
• Other factors affecting value.
For each comparable sale, the appraisal
must include the names of the buyer and seller,
the deed book and page number, the date of

Only comparable sales having the least adjustments in terms of items and/or total dollar
adjustments should be considered as comparable to the donated property.

2. Capitalization of Income
This method capitalizes the net income from the
property at a rate that represents a fair return on
the particular investment at the particular time,
considering the risks involved. The key elements are the determination of the income to be
capitalized and the rate of capitalization.

3. Replacement Cost New or
Reproduction Cost Minus
Observed Depreciation
This method, used alone, usually does not result in a determination of FMV. Instead, it generally tends to set the upper limit of value, particularly in periods of rising costs, because it is
reasonable to assume that an informed buyer
will not pay more for the property than it would
cost to reproduce a similar property. Of course,
this reasoning does not apply if a similar property cannot be created because of location, unusual construction, or some other reason. Generally, this method serves to support the value
determined from other methods. When the replacement cost method is applied to improved
realty, the land and improvements are valued
separately.
The replacement cost of a building is figured
by considering the materials, the quality of
workmanship, and the number of square feet or
cubic feet in the building. This cost represents
the total cost of labor and material, overhead,
and profit. After the replacement cost has been
figured, consideration must be given to the following factors.
• Physical deterioration—the wear and tear
on the building itself.
• Functional obsolescence—usually in older
buildings with, for example, inadequate
lighting, plumbing, or heating; small rooms;
or a poor floor plan.
• Economic obsolescence—outside forces
causing the whole area to become less desirable.

Interest in a Business
The FMV of any interest in a closely held business (whether a sole proprietorship or a business taxed as a corporation or partnership) is
the amount that a willing buyer would pay for the
Publication 561 (12-2025)

interest to a willing seller after consideration of
all relevant factors. Because of the many factors
to be considered in determining the FMV of an
interest in a closely held business, the help of
experts is usually required. Such a determination requires the consideration of all available financial data, as well as all relevant factors affecting FMV. The following factors, although not
all-inclusive, may be helpful.
• The business’s net worth and prospective
earning power.
• The nature and history of the business.
• The economic outlook of the industry in
which the business operates.
• The business’s position in the industry, its
competitors, and its management.
• The FMV of assets of the business including goodwill, if applicable.
• The value of interests in businesses engaged in the same or similar industries.
You should keep complete financial and
other information on which the valuation is
based. This includes copies of reports of examinations of the business made by accountants,
engineers, or any technical experts on or close
to the valuation date.

Annuities, Interests for Life
or Terms of Years,
Remainders, and Reversions
The FMV of these kinds of property is their
present value, except in the case of annuities
under contracts issued by companies regularly
engaged in their sale. The valuation of these
commercial annuity contracts and of insurance
policies is discussed later under Certain Life Insurance and Annuity Contracts.
To determine present value, you must know
the applicable interest rate and use actuarial tables.
Interest rate. The applicable interest rate varies. It is announced monthly in a news release
and published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin
as a Revenue Ruling. The interest rate to use is
under the heading “Rate Under Section 7520”
for a given month and year. For a transfer involving a charitable interest, you may elect to use
the interest rate for the month of the donation or
the interest rate for either of the 2 preceding
months. You must use the same interest rate to
determine the present value of all interests in
that property. You must attach a statement to
the return to take the election. You can call the
IRS office at 800-829-1040 to obtain this rate.
Actuarial tables. You need to refer to actuarial tables to determine the present value of a
charitable interest in the form of an annuity, any
interest for life or a term of years, or remainder
interest donated to a charitable organization.
Use the actuarial tables set forth by regulation for these types of interests. These tables
are referenced by and explained in IRS Pub.
1457, Actuarial Valuations, Version 4A; Pub.
1458, Actuarial Valuations, Version 4B; and
Pub. 1459, Actuarial Valuations, Version 4C.
These publications provide examples showing
the use of actuarial factors and contain links to
the tables of factors to be used in determining
the present value of an annuity, an interest for
Publication 561 (12-2025)

life or a term of years, or a remainder or reversionary interest. For qualified charitable transfers, you can use the factor for the month in
which you made the contribution or for either of
the 2 months preceding that month.
Pub. 1457 explains the use of actuarial factors for computing the present value of a remainder interest in a charitable remainder annuity trust and a pooled income fund, as well as
factors for annuities, life estates, term certain
estates, and other remainder interests. Pub.
1458 explains the use of the factors for valuing
the remainder interest in a charitable remainder
unitrust. Pub. 1459 explains the use of factors to
determine the present value of a remainder interest in depreciable property. You can download Pubs. 1457, 1458, and 1459 from https://
www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables.
Formulas for actuarial factors for transfers to
pooled income funds may also be found in Regulations section 1.642(c)-6(e)(6), factors for
transfers to charitable remainder unitrusts in
Regulations section 1.664-4(e), and factors for
other transfers in Regulations section
20.2031-7(d)(6).
Note: The tables referenced by Versions
4A, 4B, and 4C of the publications are effective
for transfers on or after June 1, 2023. These tables use a more recent mortality basis than earlier tables. The earlier versions of the publications, Versions 3A, 3B, and 3C, are also
available: these versions—and the actuarial tables they reference—are applicable for transfers
after April 30, 2009, and before June 1, 2023.
However, there is a transition rule under which
you may elect to use the later tables (those referenced in Versions 4A, 4B, and 4C) for valuing
interests transferred from May 1, 2019, through
June 1, 2023. However, you must be consistent
in using factors derived under the same mortality basis with respect to each interest (income,
remainder, annuity, etc.) in the same property,
and with respect to all transfers occurring on
that valuation date. All of these publications and
tables can be accessed from https://
www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables.
Special factors. If you need a special factor
for an actual transaction, you can request a letter ruling. Be sure to include the date of birth of
each person the duration of whose life may affect the value of the interest. Also include copies of the relevant instruments. The IRS charges
a user fee for providing special factors.
For more information about requesting a ruling, see Revenue Procedure 2026-1 (or annual
update).
For information on the circumstances under
which a charitable contribution deduction may
be allowed for the donation of a partial interest
in property not in trust, see Partial Interest in
Property Not in Trust, later.

Certain Life Insurance and
Annuity Contracts
The value of an annuity contract or a life insurance policy issued by a company regularly engaged in the sale of such contracts or policies is
the amount that company would charge for a
comparable contract.

But if the donee of a life insurance policy
may reasonably be expected to cash the policy
rather than hold it as an investment, then the
FMV is the cash surrender value rather than the
replacement cost.
If an annuity is payable under a combination
annuity contract and life insurance policy (for
example, a retirement income policy with a
death benefit) and there was no insurance element when it was transferred to the charity, the
policy is treated as an annuity contract.

Partial Interest in Property
Not in Trust
Generally, no deduction is allowed for a charitable contribution, not made in trust, of less than
your entire interest in property. However, this
does not apply to a transfer of less than your
entire interest if it is a transfer of:
• A remainder interest in your personal residence or farm,
• An undivided part of your entire interest in
property, or
• A qualified conservation contribution.

Undivided Part of Your Entire
Interest
A contribution of an undivided part of your entire
interest in property must consist of a part of
each and every substantial interest or right you
own in the property. It must extend over the entire term of your interest in the property. For example, you are entitled to the income from certain property for your life (life estate) and you
contribute 20% of that life estate to a qualified
organization. You can claim a deduction for the
contribution if you do not have any other interest
in the property.
If the only interest you own in real property is
a remainder interest in a personal residence or
farm and you give your entire remainder interest
to a qualifying charity, see Annuities, Interests
for Life or Terms of Years, Remainders, and Reversions above, for information on how to value
that remainder interest.
Note: No income tax deduction is available
if you give part of your remainder interest in any
kind of property. See Partial Interest in Property
Not in Trust, above.

Qualified Conservation
Contribution
A qualified conservation contribution is a contribution of a qualified real property interest to a
qualified organization to be used only for conservation purposes as defined in section 170(h)
(4).
Qualified organization. For purposes of a
qualified conservation contribution, a qualified
organization is:
• A governmental unit;
• A publicly supported charitable, religious,
scientific, literary, educational, etc., organization; or
• An organization that is controlled by and
operated for the exclusive benefit of a
7

governmental unit or a publicly supported
charity.
The organization must also have a commitment
to protect the conservation purposes of the donation and must have the resources to enforce
the restrictions.
Note: A qualified organization is one of a
certain group of charities that qualifies under
section 170(c) for an income tax charitable contribution deduction.
Conservation purposes. Your contribution
must be made only for one of the following conservation purposes.
• Preserving land areas for outdoor recreation by or for the education of the general
public.
• Protecting a relatively natural habitat of
fish, wildlife, or plants or a similar ecosystem.
• Preserving open space, including farmland
and forest land, if it yields a significant public benefit. It must be either for the scenic
enjoyment of the general public or under a
clearly defined federal, state, or local governmental conservation policy.
• Preserving a historically important land
area or a certified historic structure. There
must be some visual public access to the
property. Factors used in determining the
type and amount of public access required
include the historical significance of the
property, the remoteness or accessibility of
the site, and the extent to which intrusions
on the privacy of individuals living on the
property would be unreasonable.
Certified historic structures. There are two
types of buildings that may be certified historic
structures: a National Register building and a
registered historic district building. A National
Register building and a historic district building
can be certified by the Department of the Interior as a certified historic structure. A National
Register building is an individual building that is
listed in the National Register of Historic Places
(“National Register”). If the building is the only
building in the listing in the National Register, no
certification is necessary by the Department of
the Interior; the building is a certified historic
structure. Alternatively, if the listing in the National Register consists of more than one building (for example, a house, a garage, a mill complex, etc.), the Secretary of the Interior must
certify which of the multiple buildings is the certified historic structure.
A registered historic district building is an individual building that is located in a registered
historic district and has been separately certified by the Secretary of the Interior as a certified
historic structure. The mere listing of the building as contributing to a registered historic district is not sufficient. A registered historic district
is any district listed in the National Register.
Charitable contribution deduction for donation of a qualified conservation contribution. No deduction is available unless the National Register building or the registered historic
district building is a certified historic structure.
Most qualified conservation contribution donations claimed are in the form of a qualified real
8

property interest that is a perpetual easement or
other restriction (“easement”).

1. Form 8283, completed as specified in its
instructions;

registered historic district building for any of the
5 years before the year of the qualified conservation contribution donation, your charitable
contribution deduction is reduced. For more information, see Form 3468, Investment Credit
(and its instructions), and section 170(f)(14).
For more information on how an NPS # applies to a certified historic structure, see Easements on certified historic structures, in the
Instructions for Form 8283.

2. A signed Qualified Appraisal, performed
by a Qualified appraiser; and

Qualified real property interest. This is any
of the following interests in real property.

3. The National Park Service project number
(NPS #), if applicable. See the Instructions
for Form 8283 for more information.

1. Your entire interest in real estate other
than a mineral interest (subsurface oil,
gas, or other minerals, and the right of access to these minerals).

National Register building. You can claim a
deduction for the donation of an easement on
all or part of the interior or exterior of a National
Register building. You must include with your return:

Registered historic district building. You
can claim a deduction for the donation of an
easement on all or part of the interior of a registered historic district building. You cannot claim
a deduction for the donation of an easement on
the exterior of the building unless the restriction
meets all of the following conditions:
1. The restriction must preserve the entire
exterior of the building (including its front,
sides, rear, and height) and must prohibit
any change to the exterior of the building
that is inconsistent with its historical character;
2. You and the organization receiving the
contribution must enter into a written
agreement certifying, under penalty of perjury, that the organization:
a. Is a qualified organization with a purpose of environmental protection,
land conservation, open space preservation, or historic preservation; and
b. Has the resources to manage and enforce the restriction and a commitment to do so; and
3. You must include with your return:
a. Form 8283, completed as specified in
the Instructions for Form 8283;
b. A signed Qualified Appraisal, performed by a Qualified appraiser;
c. Photographs of the building’s entire
exterior;
d. A description of all restrictions on development of the building, such as
zoning laws and restrictive covenants;
and
e. The National Park Service project
number (NPS #), if applicable. See
the Instructions for Form 8283 for
more information.
If the claimed donation exceeds $10,000,
you must include a $500 filing fee and a Form
8283-V, Payment Voucher for Filing Fee Under
Section 170(f)(13). If you choose to pay this fee
electronically, you do not need to send in Form
8283-V. Go to IRS.gov/Payments to see all of
your payment options. See the instructions for
Form 8283-V for more information. Your deduction will generally be disallowed if you fail to
comply with this requirement.
Rehabilitation credit. If you claim a rehabilitation credit on a National Register building or

2. A remainder interest.
3. A restriction (granted in perpetuity) on the
use that may be made of the real property,
also commonly known as an easement, a
restrictive covenant, an equitable servitude, or a perpetual conservation restriction, depending upon terminology applicable where the real property is located. See
Regulations section 1.170A-14(b)(2) for
further information.
Valuation. A qualified real property interest
described in (1) above consists of the following.
• Your entire interest in real property with you
retaining a qualified mineral interest, or
your entire interest in the real property
when someone else owns the qualified
mineral interest; and the probability of surface mining occurring is so remote as to be
negligible. A qualified mineral interest
gives you the right to access subsurface
oil, gas, or other minerals. You determine
the FMV of the real property absent the
qualified mineral interest in the same manner that you determine the FMV of real estate. See Real Estate, earlier.
• A remainder interest in real property.
• A conservation restriction (granted in perpetuity) on the use which may be made of
real property.
The value of the charitable contribution of a
perpetual conservation restriction (conservation
easement) is the FMV of the easement at the
time of the contribution. In determining the FMV
of a conservation easement, if there is a substantial record of arm’s-length sales of conservation easements on other properties that are
the same as or very similar to the donated conservation easement, you must take into account
the selling price of these easements. If there are
no comparable sales, the FMV of the conservation easement is generally determined indirectly
as the difference between the FMVs of the
property before and after the grant of the conservation easement. The FMV of the property
before the grant of the conservation easement
must take into account not only the current use
of the property but also an objective assessment of how immediate or remote the likelihood
is that the property, without the easement,
would be developed. In determining whether
the property could be developed, you must also
consider any zoning, conservation, or historical
preservation laws that would already restrict the
property’s potential highest and best use.
Publication 561 (12-2025)

Finally, if a potential highest and best use is
being considered that would require a change
in zoning or other restrictions on the property,
you must address whether it is reasonably probable that such a change would be permitted.
Granting a conservation easement may increase, rather than reduce, the value of property, and in such a situation no deduction would
be allowed.
Example. You own 10 acres of land. Similar land in the area has an FMV of $2,000 an
acre. However, land in the general area that is
restricted solely to farm use has an FMV of
$1,500 an acre. Your county wants to preserve
open space and prevent further development in
your area.
You grant to the county an enforceable open
space easement in perpetuity on 8 of the 10
acres, restricting its use to farmland. The value
of this easement is $4,000, determined as follows.
FMV of the property before
granting easement:
$2,000 × 10 acres . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Minus:
FMV of the property after
granting easement:
$1,500 × 8 acres . . . . . . . . .
$12,000
$2,000 × 2 acres . . . . . . . . .
4,000
Value of easement

. . . . . . . . . .

$20,000

16,000
$4,000

If you later transfer in fee your remaining interest in the 8 acres to another qualified organization, the FMV of your remaining interest is the
FMV of the 8 acres reduced by the FMV of the
easement granted to the first organization.
Disallowance of deductions for certain conservation contributions by partnerships or
S corporations. Subject to three exceptions,
if you are an ultimate member of a partnership
or an S corporation and the amount of the partnership’s or S corporation’s qualified conservation contribution exceeds 2.5 times the sum of
each ultimate member’s relevant basis, the contribution is not treated as a qualified conservation contribution and no one may claim a deduction for the contribution (section 170(h)(7)
disallowance rule). Thus, your charitable conservation contribution deduction is disallowed.
The term “ultimate member” means, with respect to any partnership or S corporation, any
partner (that is not itself a partnership or S corporation) or S corporation shareholder that receives a distributive share or pro rata share, directly or indirectly (through one or more
upper-tier partnerships or upper-tier S corporations), of a qualified conservation contribution.
Relevant basis is, with respect to any ultimate member, the portion of the ultimate member’s modified basis that is allocable to the portion of the real property with respect to which
the qualified conservation contribution is made.
An upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation is a partnership or S corporation that
does not itself make the contribution but instead
receives an allocated portion of a qualified conservation contribution from another partnership.
The term “allocated portion” simply means a
distributive share of a qualified conservation
contribution made by a lower-tier partnership.

Publication 561 (12-2025)

If the amount of a contributing partnership’s
or contributing S corporation’s qualified conservation contribution exceeds 2.5 times the sum
of each ultimate member’s relevant basis, the
contribution is not treated as a qualified conservation contribution with respect to the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation,
any upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation, or any ultimate member. No one may
claim a deduction for the contribution. With respect to a contributing partnership or contributing S corporation, the amount of the contribution is generally the amount claimed on the
return of the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation.
If the amount of a contributing partnership’s
or contributing S corporation’s qualified conservation contribution equals or is less than 2.5
times the sum of each ultimate member’s relevant basis, then any upper-tier partnership or
upper-tier S corporation must determine
whether the section 170(h)(7) disallowance rule
applies to its allocated portion of the qualified
conservation contribution.
The contributing partnership or contributing
S corporation must determine each ultimate
member’s relevant basis. That determination
will require information from any upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation and may
also require information from ultimate members.
See Instructions for Form 8283 and Pub.
526 and Regulations section 1.170A-14(j)
through (n) for more details on the section
170(h)(7) disallowance rule, including guidance
on the computation of modified basis and relevant basis, application of the section 170(h)(7)
disallowance rule in tiered structures, and the
three exceptions to the section 170(h)(7) disallowance rule.
More information. For more information
about qualified conservation contributions, see
Instructions for Form 8283 and Pub. 526.

Substantiation of
Noncash Charitable
Contributions
What you need to substantiate your income tax
charitable contribution deduction depends upon
the property being donated and the claimed
value of this property. There are three types of
documents that may be required in order to
substantiate your contribution.
• Contemporaneous Written Acknowledgment (CWA).
• Form 8283.
• An appraisal, which in certain cases must
be a “qualified appraisal,” completed by a
“qualified appraiser.”
CWA. You must get a CWA from the charity to
which you contributed property on or before the
earlier of the date on which you file a return reporting the donation or the due date (including
extensions) for filing such return.
CWA must include the following:
1. The name of the organization;
2. The amount of any monetary contribution;

3. A description (but not the FMV) of any
contribution of property;
4. A statement that no goods or services
were provided by the organization in return
for the contribution, if that was the case;
5. If the organization did provide goods or
services in return for the contribution, a
description and good faith estimate of the
FMV of the goods or services; and
6. If the organization only provided intangible
religious benefits (described later in this
publication) in return for the contribution, a
statement so providing.
See Pub. 1771 for examples of CWAs.
Form 8283. You must file a Form 8283 if the
amount of your deduction for each noncash
contribution is more than $500, and when you
donate certain publicly traded securities for
which market quotations are readily available;
certain intellectual property, like a patent; a vehicle for which you obtained a CWA meeting the
requirements of section 170(f)(12)(B) (including
a car, boat, or airplane) for which your deduction is limited to the gross proceeds from its
sale; and inventory and other similar property
described in section 1221(a)(1). You must also
file a Form 8283 if you have a group of similar
items for which a total deduction of over $500 is
claimed. See Form 8283 below.
Similar items of property are items of the
same general category or type, such as coin
collections, paintings, books, clothing, jewelry,
nonpublicly traded stock, land, or buildings.
Example. You claimed a deduction of $600
for inventory, $7,000 for publicly traded securities (quotations published daily), and $6,000 for
a collection of 15 books ($400 each).
Appraisal. Many, but not all, charitable contributions require a qualified appraisal completed
by a qualified appraiser. See Qualified appraiser
and Qualified Appraisal, later.
A qualified appraisal is not required for the
donation of:
• Certain publicly traded securities for which
market quotations are readily available;
• Certain intellectual property, like a patent;
• A vehicle for which you obtained a CWA
meeting the requirements of section 170(f)
(12)(B) (including a car, boat, or airplane)
for which your deduction is limited to the
gross proceeds from its sale;
• Inventory and other similar property described in section 1221(a)(1); and
• Noncash property valued at less than
$5,000 unless the property is an item of
clothing or a household item that is not in
good used condition for which you are
claiming a value of more than $500.
The appraiser’s opinion is never more valid
than the facts on which it is based; without
these facts, it is simply a guess.
Even when a qualified appraisal by a qualified appraiser is not required, you must support
the value you claim for the property you contribute to charity. For property like publicly traded

9

securities for which market quotations are readily available, you may not need an appraisal by
an appraiser.
Cost of appraisals. You may not take a charitable contribution deduction for fees you pay for
appraisals of your donated property.
Donation less than $5,000. If you give property worth less than $250 to charity, you should
obtain a receipt from the charity. The receipt
should include the charity’s name and address,
and the date you made the gift. If you give property worth between $250 and $5,000, you must
obtain a CWA. You must also substantiate the
FMV you claim for the property. You may need
to file a Form 8283.
Deduction over $500 for certain clothing or
household items. You must include with your
return a qualified appraisal prepared by a qualified appraiser of any single item of clothing or
any household item that is not in good used
condition or better and for which you deduct
more than $500. Attach the appraisal and Form
8283. See Household Items and Used Clothing,
earlier. You must also obtain a CWA for this
donation.

Deductions of More Than
$5,000
Generally, if the claimed deduction for an item
or group of similar items of donated property is
more than $5,000 and was made after December 31, 1984, you must:
• Obtain a qualified appraisal signed and
dated by a qualified appraiser, and
• Complete and attach Form 8283 to your
tax return.
There are exceptions, discussed later. You
should keep the appraiser’s report with your
written records. Records are discussed in Pub.
526. You must also obtain a CWA for this donation.
The phrase “similar items” means property
of the same generic category or type (whether
or not donated to the same donee), such as
stamps, coins, fine art, books, nonpublicly traded stock, nonpublicly traded securities other
than nonpublicly traded stock, land, buildings,
clothing, jewelry, furniture, household goods,
collectibles, or decorative arts. For example, if
you give books to three schools and you deduct
$2,000, $2,500, and $900, respectively, your
claimed deduction is more than $5,000 for
these books. You must get a qualified appraisal
of the books and for each school you must attach a fully completed Form 8283, Section B, to
your tax return.
Publicly traded securities. Publicly traded
securities are securities that have market quotations that are readily available on an established
securities market. The requirement is met if the
securities are:
• Listed on a stock exchange in which quotations are published on a daily basis,
• Regularly traded in a national or regional
over-the-counter market for which published quotations are available, or
• Shares of an open-end investment company (mutual fund) for which quotations
10

are published on a daily basis in a newspaper of general circulation throughout the
United States.
An issue of a security that does not meet the
requirements just listed will be considered to
have market quotations readily available if:
1. The issue is regularly traded during the
computation period (defined later) in a
market for which there is an “interdealer
quotation system” (defined later);
2. The issuer or agent computes the “average trading price” (defined later) for the
same issue for the computation period;
3. The average trading price and total volume
of the issue during the computation period
are published in a newspaper of general
circulation throughout the United States,
not later than the last day of the month following the end of the calendar quarter in
which the computation period ends;
4. The issuer or agent keeps books and records that list for each transaction during
the computation period the date of settlement of the transaction, the name and address of the broker or dealer making the
market in which the transaction occurred,
and the trading price and volume; and
5. The issuer or agent permits the IRS to review the books and records described in
the above bullet point with respect to
transactions during the computation period upon receiving reasonable notice.
An interdealer quotation system is any system of general circulation to brokers and dealers that regularly disseminates quotations of
obligations by two or more identified brokers or
dealers who are not related to either the issuer
or agent who computes the average trading
price of the security. A quotation sheet prepared
and distributed by a broker or dealer in the regular course of business and containing only
quotations of that broker or dealer is not an interdealer quotation system.
The average trading price is the average
price of all transactions (weighted by volume),
other than original issue or redemption transactions, conducted through a U.S. office of a
broker or dealer who maintains a market in the
issue of the security during the computation period. Bid and asked quotations are not taken
into account.
The computation period is weekly during
October through December and monthly during
January through September. The weekly computation periods during October through December begin with the first Monday in October
and end with the first Sunday following the last
Monday in December.

Deductions of More Than
$500,000
If you claim a deduction of more than $500,000
for a donation of property, you must attach a
qualified appraisal of the property to your return.
This does not apply to contributions of cash, inventory, publicly traded stock, or intellectual
property.

If you do not obtain a qualified appraisal
and/or attach the appraisal to your return, if required, you cannot deduct your contribution, unless your failure to attach the appraisal is due to
reasonable cause and not to willful neglect.

Qualified Appraisal
A qualified appraisal is an appraisal document
that meets the following requirements.
• Is made, signed, and dated by a qualified
appraiser (defined later) in accordance
with the substance and principles of the
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
• Meets the relevant requirements of Regulations section 1.170A-17(a).
• Is signed by the qualified appraiser and
dated no earlier than 60 days before the
date of the contribution and no later than
the due date, including extensions, of the
return on which the deduction for the contribution is first claimed. For an appraisal
report dated before the date of the contribution, the valuation effective date must be
no earlier than 60 days before the date of
the contribution and no later than the date
of the contribution. For an appraisal report
dated on or after the date of the contribution, the valuation effective date must be
the date of the contribution.
• Does not involve a prohibited appraisal fee.
You must receive the qualified appraisal before the due date, including extensions, of the
return on which a charitable contribution deduction is first claimed for the donated property. If
the deduction is first claimed on an amended
return, the qualified appraisal must be received
before the date on which the amended return is
filed. An appraisal is not a qualified appraisal if
you fail to disclose or you misrepresent facts to
your appraiser and a reasonable person would
expect this failure or misrepresentation to cause
the appraiser to misstate the value of the property you contributed.
Form 8283 must be completed and attached
to your tax return. Generally, you do not need to
attach the qualified appraisal itself, but you
should keep a copy as long as it may be relevant under the tax law. There are four exceptions.
• If you claim a deduction of $20,000 or
more for donations of art, you should attach a complete copy of the appraisal. See
Art and Collectibles, earlier.
• If you claim a deduction of more than
$500,000 for a donation of property, you
must attach the appraisal. See Deductions
of More Than $500,000, earlier.
• If you claim a deduction of more than $500
for an article of clothing or a household
item that is not in good used condition or
better, you must attach the appraisal. See
Deduction over $500 for certain clothing or
household items, earlier.
• If you claim a deduction for an easement or
other restriction on the exterior of a building in a historic district, you must attach the
appraisal. See Certified historic structures,
earlier.

Publication 561 (12-2025)

Prohibited appraisal fee. Generally, no part
of the fee arrangement for a qualified appraisal
can be based on a percentage of the appraised
value of the property. If a fee arrangement is
based on what is allowed as a deduction, after
IRS examination or otherwise, it is treated as a
fee based on a percentage of appraised value.
Information included in qualified appraisal.
A qualified appraisal must include the following
information.
1. A description of the property in sufficient
detail for a person who is not generally familiar with the type of property to determine that the property appraised is the
property that was (or will be) contributed.
2. The physical condition of any tangible personal property or real property.
3. The date (or expected date) of contribution (valuation effective date).
4. The terms of any agreement or understanding entered into (or expected to be
entered into) by or on behalf of the donor
and donee that relates to the use, sale, or
other disposition of the donated property,
including, for example, the terms of any
agreement or understanding that:
a. Temporarily or permanently restricts a
donee’s right to use or dispose of the
donated property;
b. Earmarks donated property for a particular use; or
c. Reserves to or confers upon anyone
(other than a donee organization or an
organization participating with a donee organization in cooperative fundraising) any right to the income from
the donated property or to the possession of the property, including the
right to vote donated securities, to acquire the property by purchase or otherwise, or to designate the person
having the income, possession, or
right to acquire the property.
5. The name, address, and taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the qualified appraiser and, if the appraiser is a partner,
an employee, or an independent contractor engaged by a person other than the
donor, the name, address, and TIN of the
partnership or the person who employs or
engages the appraiser.
6. The qualifications of the qualified appraiser who signs the appraisal to value
the type of property being valued, including the appraiser’s background, experience, education, and any membership in
professional appraisal associations.
7. A statement that the appraisal was prepared for income tax purposes.
8. The declaration required by Regulations
section 1.170A-17(a)(3)(vi).
9. The appraised FMV on the date (or expected date) of contribution.
10. The method of valuation used to determine FMV, such as the sales comparison
approach, cost approach, or income approach.
Publication 561 (12-2025)

11. The specific basis for the valuation, such
as any specific comparable sales transaction.
12. The report completion date.
Art objects. The following are examples of
information that should be included in a description of donated art objects. Appraisals of art objects—paintings in particular—should include
all of the following.
1. A complete description of the art object,
including but not limited to:
a. Artist/maker name/originating culture;
b. Title;
c. Medium of art object and support;
d. Date of creation (and printing date, as
appropriate);
e. Dimensions;
f. Signature information;
g. Foundry marks and stamps (for sculpture);
h. Hallmarks and weights (for works
made of silver);
i. If the photograph, print, sculpture, or
other art object is available in multiples, indicate the dimensions and
other sizes the art object is available,
along with the specific edition number
and total number made in the edition;
j. Condition, including a condition report
by a professional conservator if condition affects the art object's value; and
k. Any other characteristics that would
impact the value of the property.
2. The cost, date, and manner of acquisition.
3. A history of the item’s prior ownership
(provenance).
4. The exhibition history of the object.
5. Authenticity documentation. Reasonable
due diligence should include an annotated
listing of all the known works of an artist
(catalogue raisonné) citations, foundation
numbers, and/or letters from a recognized
expert, when warranted.
6. A professional quality digital color image
of the item.
7. The facts on which the appraisal was
based, such as:
a. Identification and analysis of the
item’s value characteristics;
b. Comparable sales of similar works by
the artist which were sold in a time period close to the valuation date;
c. The economic state of the art market
at the time of valuation, particularly
with respect to the specific property;
and
d. The standing of the artist in their profession and in the particular artistic
school or time period.
Number of qualified appraisals. A separate qualified appraisal is required for each item
of property that is not included in a group of

similar items of property. You need only one
qualified appraisal for a group of similar items of
property contributed in the same tax year, but
you may get separate appraisals for each item.
A qualified appraisal for a group of similar items
must provide all of the required information for
each item of similar property. The appraiser,
however, may provide a group description for
selected items the total value of which is not
more than $100.
Qualified appraiser. A qualified appraiser is
an individual with verifiable education and experience in valuing the type of property for which
the appraisal is performed.
1. The individual:
a. Has earned an appraisal designation
from a generally recognized professional appraiser organization, for the
type of property being valued; or
b. Has met certain minimum education
requirements and 2 or more years of
experience in valuing the type of property being valued. To meet the minimum education requirement, the individual must have successfully
completed professional or college-level coursework obtained from:
i. A professional or college-level
educational organization,
ii. A professional trade or appraiser
organization that regularly offers
educational programs in valuing
the type of property, or
iii. An employer as part of an employee apprenticeship or education program similar to professional or college-level courses.
2. The individual regularly prepares appraisals for which they are paid.
3. The individual is not an excluded individual (defined later).
In addition, the appraiser must make a declaration in the appraisal that, because of their
background, experience, education, and membership in professional associations, they are
qualified to make appraisals of the type of property being valued. The appraiser must complete
the Declaration of Appraiser section on Form
8283, Section B. More than one appraiser may
appraise the property, provided that each complies with the requirements, including signing
the qualified appraisal and the Declaration of
Appraiser section on Form 8283, Section B.
Excluded individuals. The following individuals cannot be qualified appraisers for the
donated property.
1. The donor of the property or the taxpayer
who claims the deduction.
2. The donee of the property.
3. A party to the transaction in which the donor acquired the property being appraised,
unless the property is donated within 2
months of the date of acquisition and its
appraised value is not more than its acquisition price. This applies to the person
who sold, exchanged, or gave the property
to the donor, or any person who acted as
11

an agent for the transferor or donor in the
transaction.
4. Any person employed by any of the above
persons. For example, if the donor acquired a painting from an art dealer, neither the dealer nor persons employed by
the dealer can be qualified appraisers for
that painting.
5. Any person related under section 267(b)
of the Internal Revenue Code to any of the
above persons or married to a person related under section 267(b) to any of the
above persons.
6. An appraiser who appraises regularly for a
person in (1), (2), or (3) and who does not
perform a majority of their appraisals
made during their tax year for other persons.
7. An individual who receives a prohibited
appraisal fee for the appraisal of the donated property. See Prohibited appraisal fee,
earlier.
8. An individual who is prohibited from practicing before the IRS under section 330(c)
of title 31 of the United States Code at any
time during the 3-year period ending on
the date the appraisal is signed by the individual.
In addition, an individual is not a qualified
appraiser for a particular donation if the donor
had knowledge of facts that would cause a reasonable person to expect the appraiser to
falsely overstate the value of the donated property. For example, if the donor and the appraiser
make an agreement concerning the amount at
which the property will be valued, and the donor
knows that amount is more than the FMV of the
property, the appraiser is not a qualified appraiser for the donation.
Appraiser penalties. An appraiser who
prepares an incorrect appraisal may have to pay
a penalty if the appraiser knows, or reasonably
should have known, the appraisal would be
used in connection with a return or claim for refund and the appraisal resulted in:
1. A substantial valuation misstatement,
2. A substantial estate or gift valuation understatement, or
3. A gross valuation misstatement.
The penalty imposed on the appraiser is the
smaller of:
1. The greater of:
a. 10% of the underpayment due to the
misstatement, or
b. $1,000; or
2. 125% of the gross income received for the
appraisal.
No penalty is imposed if the appraiser can
establish that the appraisal’s value is more likely
than not correct.
In addition, any appraiser who falsely or
fraudulently overstates the value of property described in a qualified appraisal of a Form 8283
that the appraiser has signed may be subject to
a civil penalty for aiding and abetting an
12

understatement of tax liability and may have
their appraisal disregarded.

the substantiation documents, such as the CWA
or Form 8283.

Form 8283

Penalty

Generally, if the claimed deduction for an item
of donated property is more than $5,000, you
must attach Form 8283 to your tax return and
complete Section B.
If you do not attach Form 8283 to your return
and complete Section B, the deduction will not
be allowed unless your failure was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, or was
due to a good faith omission.
You must attach a separate Form 8283 for
each item of contributed property that is not part
of a group of similar items. If you contribute similar items of property to the same donee organization, you need to attach only one Form 8283
for those items. If you contribute similar items of
property to more than one donee organization,
you must attach a separate form for each donee.

IRS Review of Appraisals
In reviewing an income tax return, the IRS may
accept the claimed value of the donated property, based on information or appraisals sent
with the return, or may make its own determination of FMV. In either case, the IRS may:
• Contact the taxpayer to get more information;
• Refer any valuation issues to an IRS appraiser or valuation specialist;
• Refer the issue to Art Appraisal Services
(AAS), a department of professional appraisers who consults with the Commissioner’s Art Advisory Panel, a group of independent dealers and curators. A referral
to AAS is mandatory for fine and decorative art valued at $50,000 or more; or
• Contract with an independent appraiser to
appraise the property when the objects require appraisers of highly specialized experience and knowledge.
Responsibility of the IRS. The IRS is responsible for reviewing appraisals, but it is not responsible for making them. Supporting the FMV
listed on your return is your responsibility.
The IRS does not accept appraisals without
question. The IRS does not recognize any
particular appraiser or organization of appraisers.
Timing of IRS action. The IRS generally does
not approve valuations or appraisals before the
actual filing of the tax return to which the appraisal applies. In addition, the IRS generally
does not issue advance rulings approving or
disapproving such appraisals.
Exception. For a request submitted as described earlier under Art valued at $50,000 or
more, the IRS will issue a Statement of Value
that can be relied on by the donor of the item of
art.
The Statement of Value is a fee-based review of the taxpayer’s appraisal and claimed
value. It does not guarantee a taxpayer’s entitlement to a deduction nor does it substitute for

You may be liable for a penalty if you misstate
the value or adjusted basis of donated property.
20% penalty. The penalty is 20% of the underpayment of tax related to the misstatement
if:
• The value or adjusted basis claimed on the
return is 150% or more of the correct
amount, and
• You underpaid your tax by more than
$5,000 because of the misstatement.
40% penalty. The penalty is 40%, rather than
20%, if:
• The value or adjusted basis claimed on the
return is 200% or more of the correct
amount, and
• You underpaid your tax by more than
$5,000 because of the misstatement.
• Your deduction for a qualified conservation
contribution was disallowed and you underpaid your tax.

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need
help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications, forms, or instructions, go
to IRS.gov to find resources that can help you
right away.
Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting
federal taxes, credits, and deductions was
enacted in P.L. 119-21, commonly known as the
One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July 4, 2025. Go
to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After
receiving all your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, 1099-MISC,
1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment compensation
statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form
1099-G); and interest, dividend, and retirement
statements from banks and investment firms
(Forms 1099), you have several options to
choose from to prepare and file your tax return.
You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if
you qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax
professional to prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online
or in your local community, if you qualify, include
the following.
• Free File. This program lets you prepare
and file your federal individual income tax
return for free using software or Free File
Fillable Forms. However, state tax preparation may not be available through Free File.
Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify
for free online federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or payment options.
• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help to
people with low-to-moderate incomes,
Publication 561 (12-2025)

persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help
preparing their own tax returns. Go to
IRS.gov/VITA, download the free IRS2Go
app, or call 800-906-9887 for information
on free tax return preparation.
• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly
(TCE) program offers free tax help for all
taxpayers, particularly those who are 60
years of age and older. TCE volunteers
specialize in answering questions about
pensions and retirement-related issues
unique to seniors. Go to IRS.gov/TCE or
download the free IRS2Go app for information on free tax return preparation.
• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed
Forces and qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/
MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms,
which can be completed online and then
e-filed regardless of income.
Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to IRS.gov/Tools for the following.
• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant
(IRS.gov/EITCAssistant) determines if
you’re eligible for the earned income credit
(EITC).
• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN)
helps you get an employer identification
number (EIN) at no cost.
• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/
W4App) makes it easier for you to estimate
the federal income tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck.
This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay,
or tax due.
• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator
(IRS.gov/SalesTax) figures the amount you
can claim if you itemize deductions on
Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov, you can get
up-to-date information on current
events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you

get answers to some of the most common
tax questions.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant,
a tool that will ask you questions and,
based on your input, provide answers on a
number of tax topics.
• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions,
and publications. You will find details on
the most recent tax changes and interactive links to help you find answers to your
questions.
• You may also be able to access tax information in your e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return?
There are various types of tax return preparers,
including enrolled agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants, and many others who don’t have professional credentials. If
you choose to have someone prepare your tax

Publication 561 (12-2025)

return, choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax
preparer is:
• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,
• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification number (PTIN).
Although the tax preparer always signs
the return, you’re ultimately responsible
CAUTION for providing all the information required for the preparer to accurately prepare
your return and for the accuracy of every item
reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare
tax returns for others should have a thorough
understanding of tax matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips
for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

!

Employers can register to use Business
Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/
employer for fast, free, and secure W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage
and Tax Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected
Wage and Tax Statement.
Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a single-member limited liability
company (LLC), you can view your tax information on record with the IRS and do more with a
business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia
to see the various social media tools the IRS
uses to share the latest information on tax
changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and
services. At the IRS, privacy and security are
our highest priority. We use these tools to share
public information with you. Don’t post your social security number (SSN) or other confidential
information on social media sites. Always protect your identity when using any social networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide
short, informative videos on various tax-related
topics in English and ASL.
• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service.
The IRS offers the OPI Service to taxpayers
needing language interpretation. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers
(TACs), most IRS offices, and every VITA/TCE
tax return site. This service is available in Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian, and Haitian Creole.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call
833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can
answer questions related to current and future
accessibility products and services available in
alternative media formats (for example,
braille-ready, large print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have access to
your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds,
or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.

Alternative media preference. Form 9000,
Alternative Media Preference, or Form
9000(SP) allows you to elect to receive certain
types of written correspondence in the following
formats.
• Standard Print.

•
•
•
•
•

Large Print.
Braille.
Audio (MP3).
Plain Text File (TXT).
Braille-Ready File (BRF).

Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to
IRS.gov/Forms to view, download, or print all
the forms, instructions, and publications you
may need. Or you can go to IRS.gov/
OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You’ll need an IRS
Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require signatures. You’ll
have the option to submit your form(s) online or
download a copy for mailing. You’ll need scans
of your documents to support your submission.
Go to IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in
eBook format. Download and view most tax
publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on mobile devices as
eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple’s
iBooks for iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated eBook readers, and
eBook functionality may not operate as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax
account.
• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax year.
• See payment plan details or apply for a
new payment plan.
• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history and any pending or scheduled payments.
• Access your tax records, including key
data from your most recent tax return, and
transcripts.
• View digital copies of select notices from
the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests
from tax professionals.
Get a transcript of your return. With an online account, you can access a variety of information to help you during the filing season. You
can get a transcript, review your most recently
filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross income. Create or access your online account at
IRS.gov/Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional submit an authorization request to access your individual taxpayer IRS OLA. For

13

more
information,
TaxProAccount.

go

to

IRS.gov/

Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest
way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and
choose direct deposit, which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your
financial account. Direct deposit also avoids the
possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS.
Eight in 10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank or credit
union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related
identity theft issues.
• Tax-related identity theft happens when
someone steals your personal information
to commit tax fraud. Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with tax-

payers by email, text messages (including
shortened links), telephone calls, or social
media channels to request or verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs), passwords, or similar information for credit cards, banks, or other financial accounts.
• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft Central webpage, for information
on identity theft and data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and
businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of
tax-related identity theft, you can learn
what steps you should take.
• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP
PINs are six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their
SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return
with your SSN. To learn more, go to
IRS.gov/IPPIN.
Ways to check on the status of your refund.
• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your
mobile device to check your refund status.
• Call the automated refund hotline at
800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before
mid-February for returns that claimed
CAUTION the EITC or the additional child tax
credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire refund,
not just the portion associated with these credits.

!

Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends
paying electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electronically are included in the list
below. Payments of U.S. tax must be remitted to
the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets are not
accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information on how to make a payment using any of the
following options.
• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank
account. It’s free and secure, and no
14

sign-in is required. You can change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.
Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet:
Choose an approved payment processor
to pay online or by phone.
Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a
payment when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or
through a tax professional.
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System:
This is the best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
Check or Money Order: Mail your payment
to the address listed on the notice or instructions.
Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes
with cash at a participating retail store.
Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do
same-day wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for
availability, cost, and time frames.

•
•

•
•
•
•

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption
technology to ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by phone, or from a
mobile device using the IRS2Go app are safe
and secure. Paying electronically is quick and
easy.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/
Payments for more information about your options.
• Apply for an online payment agreement
(IRS.gov/OPA) to meet your tax obligation
in monthly installments if you can’t pay
your taxes in full today. Once you complete
the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has been approved.
• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier
to see if you can settle your tax debt for
less than the full amount you owe. For
more information on the Offer in Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.
Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/
1040X for information and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return. Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status
of Form 1040-X amended returns.
It can take up to 3 weeks from the date
you filed your amended return for it to
CAUTION show up in our system, and processing
it can take up to 16 weeks.

!

Understanding an IRS notice or letter
you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find
additional information about responding to an
IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be
able to use the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible IRS notices and letters
by securely uploading required documents online through IRS.gov. For more information, go
to IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP
(Form 1040), Request for Change in Language
Preference, to state a preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications
from the IRS in an alternative language. You

may not immediately receive written communications in the requested language. The IRS’s
commitment to LEP taxpayers is part of a
multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive communications, including notices and letters, in
English until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind,
many questions can be answered on IRS.gov
without visiting a TAC. Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp
for the topics people ask about most. If you still
need help, TACs provide tax help when a tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All
TACs now provide service by appointment, so
you’ll know in advance that you can get the
service you need without long wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TAC to find the
nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and appointment options. Or, on the
IRS2Go app, under the Stay Connected tab,
choose the Contact Us option and click on “Local Offices.”
———————————————————
—————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

The Taxpayer Advocate
Service (TAS) Is Here To
Help You

What Is the Taxpayer Advocate
Service?

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent organization within the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS). TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS, makes administrative and legislative recommendations to prevent
or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is
treated fairly and that you know and understand
your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We
are Your Voice at the IRS.

How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you
haven’t been able to resolve with the IRS on
your own. Always try to resolve your problem
with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then come to
TAS. Our services are free.
• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You
may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
problem is causing financial difficulty, if
you’ve tried and been unable to resolve
your issue with the IRS, or if you believe an
IRS system, process, or procedure just
isn’t working as it should.
• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov.
The site can help you with common tax issues and situations, such as what to do if
you make a mistake on your return or if you
get a notice from the IRS.
• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems that affect many
Publication 561 (12-2025)

taxpayers. You can report systemic issues
at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include any personal identifiable information.)

How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of
Columbia, and Puerto Rico. To find your local
advocate’s number:
• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/
Contact-Us,

Publication 561 (12-2025)

• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.

What Are My Rights as a
Taxpayer?

rights, what they mean to you, and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter
with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer
rights and ensure the IRS is administering the
tax law in a fair and equitable way.

The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic
rights that all taxpayers have when dealing with
the IRS. Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/
Taxpayer-Rights for more information about the

15

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

A
Aircraft 5
Annuities 7
Annuity contracts 7
Antiques 4
Appraisals 9
Cost of 10
IRS review of 12
Qualified appraisal 10
Art objects 4
Valued at $20,000 or more 4
Valued at $50,000 or more 4
Assistance (See Tax help)

B
Boats 5
Bonds 5
Books 5
Business, interest in 6

C
Cars 5
Certified historic structure 8
Clothing, used 4, 10
Coins 5
Collections:
Books 5
Coins 5
Stamps 5
Comparable properties, sales
of 3
Conservation contribution 8
Cost 2
Rate of increase or decrease 2

16

Terms of purchase or sale 2

D
Date of contribution 2
Deductions of more than
$5,000 10
Deductions of more than
$500,000 10

F
Fair market value 2
Comparable properties, sales
of 3
Cost 2
Date of contribution 2
Determining FMV 2
Opinions of professional
appraisers 3
Problems in determining FMV 3
Replacement cost 3
Form 8283 12
Future events, effect on value 3

G
Gems and jewelry 4

H
Household items 4, 10

I
Interest in a business 6
Inventory 5
IRS review of appraisals 12
Exception 12

L
Life insurance 7

M

Replacement cost 3
Reversion interests 7

S

Market conditions, effect on
value 3

Stamps 5
Statement of Value 12
Stocks 5

O

T

Opinions of professional
appraisers 3

Tax help 12

P

Used clothing 4, 10

Paintings 4
Partial interest 7
Past events, effect on value 4
Patents 5
Penalties:
Imposed on appraiser 12
Imposed on taxpayer 12
Publications (See Tax help)
Publicly traded securities 10

Q
Qualified appraisal 10
Qualified appraiser 11
Qualified conservation
contribution 7

R
Real estate 6
Registered historic district
building 8
Remainder interests 7

U
V
Valuation of property 4
Annuities 7
Art and Collectibles 4
Cars, boats, and aircraft 5
Collectibles 4
Gems and jewelry 4
Household items 4
Interest in a business 6
Inventory 5
Life insurance and annuity
contracts 7
Partial interest in property 7
Patents 5
Real estate 6
Remainder interests 7
Reversion interests 7
Stocks and bonds 5
Terms of years 7
Used clothing 4

Publication 561 (12-2025)

