Taxpayer Compliance Burden




  Publication 5743 (Rev. 4-2023) Catalog Number 93812U Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service publish.no.irs.gov
    Taxpayer Compliance Burden
    RAAS: John Guyton, Pat Langetieg, Pete Rose, Brenda Schafer, Sherri Edelman
    W&I Tax Forms and Publications: Andres Garcia, Molly Stasko
    Date, February 2023

    I. INTRODUCTION
    The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (PRA)1 was enacted to minimize the public’s paperwork burden resulting
    from the growing information collection and reporting requirements imposed on it by the federal government.
    One provision of the Act requires federal agencies to report to Congress the information collection burden
    they impose. The IRS collects information from taxpayers so that they can fulfil their income reporting
    requirements and provide sufficient information to claim allowed deductions and credits against their taxable
    income.

    The Wage & Investment (W&I) Media & Publications coordinates all reporting of official burden estimates
    through the Department of Treasury to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). The IRS Office of Chief
    Counsel considers the impact of the reporting burden associated with implementation of new regulations.
    The Treasury Office of Tax Analysis (OTA) oversees the methodology used by the IRS to provide burden
    estimates.

    Taxpayer reporting burden would be much greater for the federal government and the public if there were no
    tax forms which provide a framework for determining tax liability and claiming tax benefits. Nevertheless, the
    federal tax system required by the Internal Revenue Code imposes an enormous burden on taxpayers. It is
    estimated that taxpayer compliance burden is 63% of the annual federal paperwork burden.2 Therefore, reducing
    taxpayer compliance burden is a key priority of the IRS. However, the IRS must balance its burden reduction
    efforts with the administrative costs that would otherwise be required to determine a taxpayer’s tax liability.

    This paper provides information about both sides of taxpayer compliance burden – the burden experienced by
    taxpayers and the administrative costs incurred by the IRS to administer the tax code. It is intended to provide
    insight into the process of estimating taxpayer compliance burden, and how the IRS is working to improve
    those estimates and how they are reported to the public.

    II. WHAT IS TAXPAYER COMPLIANCE BURDEN?
    Taxpayer compliance burden is generally defined as the time and money taxpayers spend to comply with their
    tax filing responsibilities. Time-related activities include recordkeeping, tax planning, gathering tax materials,
    learning about the law, and completing and submitting the return. Out-of-pocket costs include expenses such as
    purchasing tax software, paying a third-party preparer, and printing and postage. Taxpayer compliance burden
    does not include a taxpayer’s tax liability, economic inefficiencies caused by sub-optimal choices related to tax
    deductions or credits, or psychological costs.




1
  Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, summary available at https://www.congress.gov/bill/96th-congress/house-bill/6410 (last
accessed 02/02/2023)
2
  ROCIS report, All Agency Summary of Current Inventory Report dated January 27, 2023, lists the total government inventory of
collections as 9,663 which impose a total of 10,365,910,841 burden hours. ROCIS report, Department of Treasury Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) Detailed Current Inventory Report, lists the total IRS inventory of collections as 462, which impose a total of
6,548,586,494 burden hours. Therefore, tax compliance imposes 63% of the total government burden on the public
(6,548,586,494/10,365,910,841=63%).
                                                                                                                                  1
Drivers of Taxpayer Compliance Burden
The drivers of taxpayer compliance burden can be generalized into four primary categories:

1) Volume of Activity
Volume of activity represents the different types of income and expenses as well as the associated dollar
amounts and transactions. This activity is observed in a generalized format as the number of forms and
statements included in a return, the lines that are completed on the forms, and the frequency with which the
return must be filed. A key assumption for the relationship between burden and volume of activity is that if the
volume of activity increases, burden is expected to increase but at a decreasing rate.

To provide context, a taxpayer must engage in an activity (e.g., keep records, report income, claim a deduction)
to incur burden. A taxpayer with a straightforward tax situation (perhaps a single taxpayer who has W-2 income,
taxable interest, and no dependents) will generally incur far less compliance burden than a taxpayer who files
Form 1040 with many forms and schedules attached (such as Schedule A, Itemized Deductions, Form 8582
Passive Losses, and Form 6251, Alternative Minimum Tax). Employers who file quarterly returns incur more
burden than employers who are only required to file one annual return.

2) Availability of Data Sources
Burden is impacted by the number and availability of data sources needed to complete a return. Generally,
information that is readily available from processes unrelated to tax drive less burden than information that is
not readily available. For taxpayer compliance burden purposes, recordkeeping burden is limited to the books
and records that are kept solely for tax purposes. For example, a corporation may maintain records using
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) for legal purposes. Certain adjustments are made to these
books and records to take into account differences between tax and GAAP rules. Only the time and money
spent to create and maintain tax-related adjustments are considered part of taxpayer compliance burden.

Third-party information documents, such as Form W-2, significantly reduce the burden individual taxpayers
face. Information documents provided by payors of income allow taxpayers to keep minimal records for the
income and other associated information reported on the document. It is important to note that information
document reporting imposes compliance burden on the entities responsible for issuing them, so the burden not
imposed on individuals is partially offset by the costs incurred by the information document issuers.

3) Taxpayer Characteristics
Taxpayer compliance burden is related to several different attributes. Individual taxpayers will experience
varying levels of burden based on their level of education, the structure of their household, their age, assets,
income, and their decision to hire a preparer. Entities will experience varying levels of burden based on their
industry, size, years in business, and their decision to hire a preparer. These variations in attributes can lead to
different levels of complexity. Complexity also tends to increase as income increases. This makes sense because
higher-income taxpayers are more likely to have many sources of income and claim numerous tax deductions
and credits. Businesses may also face additional reporting requirements as they increase in size.

The amount of required recordkeeping is also a significant factor in the amount of burden faced by taxpayers.
For example, an individual whose sole source of income is from wages typically has less burden than a sole
proprietor who must keep records of income and retain receipts for deductible expenses.




                                                                                                                       2
     4) Technology Infrastructure –
     Technology plays a key role in taxpayer compliance burden. During the early 80s, tax returns were prepared by
     hand and submitted by mail. Today, 94% percent of individual federal tax returns are prepared using software3
     and 90% percent of all returns are electronically filed.4 Technology innovation over the last three decades has
     also introduced recordkeeping solutions for all filers that improve productivity at a significantly reduced price.

     Returns prepared on paper generally take more time to prepare than those that are prepared using software.
     Assisted tax preparation (whether the taxpayer prepares the return using software or seeks the services of a
     paid preparer) generally reduces the time to complete a tax return, but there is a tradeoff of incurring out-of-
     pocket costs (money burden) if the taxpayer purchases the software or uses a paid preparer. The use of
     software offers other important benefits, such as eliminating the need to spend time obtaining tax forms,
     automated math calculations, interview prompts, and error checking, to name a few. A variety of free and pay-
     for tax preparation software packages and tax preparation services are available to most taxpayers.

     As with recordkeeping, the costs associated with computers, software, data storage, etc. that a taxpayer
     maintains for non-tax purposes are not included in taxpayer compliance burden. Costs associated with new
     equipment and software that a taxpayer purchases solely for tax reporting purposes is included in taxpayer
     compliance burden. Initial startup costs to acquire and put in place technology to handle tax reporting-related
     compliance tasks reduces the ongoing burden that would otherwise be incurred.

     III. ESTIMATING TAX COMPLIANCE BURDEN
     To better meet the burden reporting requirements of the PRA of 1980, the IRS sponsored a study by Arthur D
     Little, Inc. (ADL) in 1984. ADL conducted a diary study and several surveys of individuals and businesses to gather
     data about the time they spent on recordkeeping, learning about the law and/or form, completing the return,
     and copying, assembling and submitting the return. ADL worked with the IRS to match the survey data to the
     respondents’ tax returns. Using the matched data allowed ADL to build the first mathematical model (known as
     the ADL Model) designed to estimate taxpayer compliance burden. The ADL model was a groundbreaking
     innovation and the first of its kind in the federal government.

     As stated earlier, when the model was being developed, most returns were prepared by hand and filed on
     paper. No one anticipated the major shift to software preparation. Electronic filing hadn’t yet been introduced.
     It was assumed that any updates to the model would only require modifying isolated values or changing the
     activity burden formulas if necessary. Because manual tax preparation on paper requires taxpayers to go
     through each form they complete, the model was designed to calculate burden for each form separately and
     assumed taxpayers had to at least consider every line. Because the PRA only required reporting burden hours,
     the monetary cost of tax compliance was not included in the model.

     Perhaps the most important benefit of the ADL model is that it is quite simple to use. The user inputs the
     number of lines on the form and the expected number of forms that will be filed for that tax year. The model
     provides the estimated aggregate burden hours.

     The ADL model is still used to estimate the burden for many IRS forms.




3
    FY 21 Individual Tax Return data
4
    IRS Publication 6292 (rev. 9-2022), Fiscal Year Return Projections for the United States
                                                                                                                           3
    A New Look at Taxpayer Compliance Burden Estimation
    In 1998, the IRS recognized that changes in the economy, tax laws, and characteristics of the taxpayer
    population were making the survey data that underlie the estimates in the ADL model increasingly out-of-date.
    In addition, the model can simulate only a narrow range of policy changes because it does not adequately
    represent the characteristics of the tax law that generate burden.5 IRS Commissioner Charles Rossotti
    established a task force to study the issue and make recommendations regarding future research. The task
    forced includes representatives from the IRS, Department of Treasury (Office of Tax Analysis and Assistant
    Secretary for Management), Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and the General Accounting Office
    (GAO).

    A 2000 GAO report6 summarizes the ideal capabilities of the new model. It states that the model would be able
    to:

    •   estimate the burden associated with all prefiling, filing, and post-filing activities undertaken to comply with
        federal income, estate and gift, employment, and excise tax rules;
    •   disaggregate total compliance burden by type of tax, taxpayer, and activity;
    •   disaggregate burden by origin of compliance requirements (tax laws, regulations, and administrative
        procedures);
    •   estimate changes in burden associated with potential tax law changes;
    •   function in an integrated manner, allowing users to see how certain tax changes affect multiple taxpayer
        groups;
    •   disaggregate burden by IRS function (e.g., submission processing and customer service) for burdens
        associated with the requirements of, and taxpayer interactions with, those functions;
    •   estimate the impact on tax compliance burden of alternative enforcement programs and techniques
        providing customer service;
    •   provide different types of estimates for different purposes (e.g., the estimates required for the Information
        Collection Budget are different from those that IRS would use for performance measurement under
        Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA));
    •   estimate burden in terms of dollars as well as time; and
    •   incorporate new data with sufficient ease so that the model, itself, would not have to be replaced in the
        near future.

    To mitigate the risks associated with developing the new burden estimation methodology, the IRS implemented
    a multi-phase strategy. The approach gives the IRS an opportunity to incorporate lessons learned from early
    phases of the process into later efforts.

    The first phase of the development process focused on implementation of a model to estimate the
    taxpayer compliance burden of wage and investment taxpayers—those who derive all of their
    income from wages, pensions, interest, dividends, and capital gains. The IRS contracted with IBM to document
    the components of taxpayer compliance burden, describe the concept and structure of a microsimulation
    model to estimate burden, and recommend a strategy for gathering new survey data from a sample of
    individual taxpayers. The study helped develop an improved methodology for measuring and modeling the
    burdens imposed by the tax system on individual taxpayers, with the expectation that the methodology would
    be expanded to other taxpayer segments in the future.



5
  Guyton, John L. & O'Hare, John F. & Stavrianos, Michael P. & Toder, Eric J., 2003. "Estimating the Compliance Cost of the U.S.
Individual Income Tax," National Tax Journal, National Tax Association, vol. 56(3), pages 673-688, September.
6
  GAO Report (2000), TAX ADMINISTRATION: IRS Is Working to Improve Its Estimates of Compliance Burden, May 2000 available at
https://www.gao.gov/products/ggd-00-11. Last accessed 02/02/2023.
                                                                                                                                   4
    The improved burden methodology establishes econometric relationships between tax return characteristics
    from IRS administrative data and the time and out-of-pocket costs reported by those taxpayers via survey data.
    Most importantly, it takes a taxpayer-centric view of tax compliance burden, considering taxpayers’ actual pre-
    filing and filing experience. It recognizes the need to survey taxpayers periodically to ensure that the model can
    be updated to properly represent the current tax compliance experience.

    Taxpayer Burden Surveys
    As a key step in estimating tax compliance costs, the IRS conducts taxpayer burden surveys. These surveys are
    designed to gather statistically representative data regarding the time and out-of-pocket costs incurred by
    taxpayers in response to their tax obligations.

    Individual Taxpayer Burden (ITB) surveys have been conducted for tax years 1984 (original ADL survey), 1999,
    2000, 2007, and annually since 2010. The tax year 1999 survey only included wage and investment taxpayers;
    tax year 2000 survey only included self-employed taxpayers, and all surveys from tax year 2007 on have
    included both wage and investment and self-employed taxpayers.

    Business Taxpayer Burden (BTB) surveys have been conducted for tax year 1984 (original ADL survey), 2004,
    2009, and 2012 and are scheduled to be fielded every year or three years thereafter. The tax year 2004 survey
    only included small business taxpayers filing Form 1120, 1120-S, 1065, and 1120 Specials. The tax year 2009
    survey updated the Small Business Taxpayer Burden Survey of 2004 and added a separate survey instrument for
    large businesses. This survey included all business taxpayers filing a Form 1120 series or Form 1065 series
    return. (Note: Previous studies of taxpayer compliance burden for large businesses were conducted in 1993 by
    Slemrod and Blumenthal (1996)7 and in 2002 by Slemrod and Venkatesh.8 In addition, the 1986 Arthur D. Little
    study for Tax Year 1984 also covered business taxpayers, as discussed in Contos, et al. (2012).)

    The ITB and BTB surveys are designed to gather statistically representative data on the time and out-of-pocket
    costs that taxpayers incur. As a result, after accounting for nonresponse and adjusting survey weights to match
    population control totals, the time and out-of-pocket cost amounts reported on the surveys can be used to
    estimate the average and aggregate time and out-of-pocket costs for their respective populations. It is
    important to note that these estimates are representative for the year in which the survey was collected. Any
    change that occurs before or after the survey fielding must be considered when calculating an estimate for a
    previous or ensuing year for which survey data are not available.

    Individual Taxpayer Burden Survey
    Each ITB survey uses a sampling methodology that reflects the primary taxpayer characteristics for the taxpayer
    segment being surveyed. The sampling methodology for the ITB survey involves a stratified random sample with
    20 categories (see Table 1). Returns are first distinguished by preparation method (third-party prepared, self-
    prepared using tax preparation software, self-prepared by hand, and VITA prepared). Returns are further
    stratified within the preparation categories (excluding VITA) based on five complexity categories: low, medium-
    low, medium, medium-high, and high.9 The amount of variation observed in the paid professional medium-high
    and high strata is significant enough to require the creation of three additional substrata for each. Sufficient
    sample is drawn for each stratum to ensure adequate an adequate response rate for statistical analysis.




7
  Slemrod, Joel and Marsha Blumenthal, 1996. “The Income Tax Compliance Cost of Big Business.” Public Finance Quarterly, vol. 24,
4: pp. 411-438.
8
  Slemrod, Joel and Varsha Venkatesh. 2002. “The income tax compliance cost of large and mid-size businesses.” Technical report,
IRS, LMSB Division.
9
  Appendix A provides more information on the five complexity categories.
                                                                                                                                    5
Table 1: Tax Year 2021 Individual Taxpayer Burden Survey Population Strata
                                  Strata
         Preparation Method                      Complexity
       Used a Paid Professional                     Low
       Used a Paid Professional                 Medium-Low
       Used a Paid Professional                   Medium
       Used a Paid Professional             Medium-High - Simpler
       Used a Paid Professional            Medium-High - Moderate
       Used a Paid Professional             Medium-High - Difficult
       Used a Paid Professional                 High-Simpler
       Used a Paid Professional                High-Moderate
       Used a Paid Professional                 High-Difficult
        Self-Prepared by Hand                       Low
        Self-Prepared by Hand                   Medium-Low
        Self-Prepared by Hand                     Medium
        Self-Prepared by Hand                   Medium-High
        Self-Prepared by Hand                       High
      Self-Prepared by Software                     Low
      Self-Prepared by Software                 Medium-Low
      Self-Prepared by Software                   Medium
      Self-Prepared by Software                 Medium-High
      Self-Prepared by Software                     High
            VITA Prepared                           ANY

The ITB survey instrument consists of several framing questions, such as asking the taxpayer to think about
resources they may have used when preparing their return, as well as the key time and out-of-pocket cost
questions. These topics are broken down into two separate response items: (1) time, including recordkeeping,
tax planning, gathering materials, and completing and submitting the tax return; and (2) out-of-pocket costs,
including paid preparer services, tax preparation website or software, fees for early or immediate refund, tax
books, classes, or seminars, and postage or filing fees.

To reduce recall bias, the surveys are conducted close to when the taxpayers filed their tax returns. The survey is
sent out in four waves, with the first wave sampled from the earliest filers starting around June.

Business Taxpayer Burden Survey
As with the ITB surveys, stratified random sampling is used to select the survey respondents for the BTB survey.
Business entities are grouped by entity type based on the tax return they filed(corporation, S corporation, or
partnership) and size. (See Table 2)




                                                                                                                      6
Table 2: Tax Year 2019 Business Taxpayer Burden Survey Population Strata
                                              Strata
          Form                Industry                                 Business Size
       Form 1120                ANY                                No Business Activity
       Form 1120                ANY                      Assets Under 50k and Turnover Under 20k
       Form 1120                ANY               Assets From 50k to 175k or Turnover From 20k to 70k
       Form 1120                ANY              Assets From 175k to 500k or Turnover From 70k to 200k
       Form 1120                ANY              Assets From 500k to 1.5M or Turnover From 200k to 600k
       Form 1120                ANY               Assets From 1.5M to 5M or Turnover From 600k to 2M
       Form 1120                ANY                Assets From 5M to 15M or Turnover From 2M to 6M
       Form 1120                ANY               Assets From 15M to 50M or Turnover From 6M to 20M
       Form 1120                ANY             Assets From 50M to 1000M or Turnover From 20M to 400M
 FoForm 1120-S rm 1120          ANY                       Assets Over 1B or Turnover Over 400M
      Form 1120-S               ANY                                No Business Activity
 Form 1120-S                    ANY                      Assets Under 50k and Turnover Under 20k
 Form 1120-S                    ANY               Assets From 50k to 175k or Turnover From 20k to 70k
 Form 1120-S                    ANY              Assets From 175k to 500k or Turnover From 70k to 200k
      Form 1120-S               ANY              Assets From 500k to 1.5M or Turnover From 200k to 600k
 Form 1120-S                    ANY               Assets From 1.5M to 5M or Turnover From 600k to 2M
 Form 1120-S                    ANY                Assets From 5M to 15M or Turnover From 2M to 6M
 Form 1120-S                    ANY               Assets From 15M to 50M or Turnover From 6M to 20M
 Form 1120-S                    ANY             Assets From 50M to 1000M or Turnover From 20M to 400M
 Form 1120-S                    ANY                       Assets Over 1B or Turnover Over 400M
 Form 1065                      ANY                                No Business Activity
 Form 1065                 Not Real Estate               Assets Under 50k and Turnover Under 20k
 Form 1065                 Not Real Estate        Assets From 50k to 175k or Turnover From 20k to 70k
 Form 1065                 Not Real Estate       Assets From 175k to 500k or Turnover From 70k to 200k
 Form 1065                 Not Real Estate       Assets From 500k to 1.5M or Turnover From 200k to 600k
 Form 1065                 Not Real Estate        Assets From 1.5M to 5M or Turnover From 600k to 2M
 Form 1065                 Not Real Estate         Assets From 5M to 15M or Turnover From 2M to 6M
       Form 1065           Not Real Estate        Assets From 15M to 50M or Turnover From 6M to 20M
       Form 1065           Not Real Estate      Assets From 50M to 1000M or Turnover From 20M to 400M
       Form 1065           Not Real Estate                Assets Over 1B or Turnover Over 400M
 Form 1065                  Real Estate                  Assets Under 50k and Turnover Under 20k
 Form 1065                  Real Estate           Assets From 50k to 175k or Turnover From 20k to 70k
 Form 1065                  Real Estate          Assets From 175k to 500k or Turnover From 70k to 200k
 Form 1065                  Real Estate          Assets From 500k to 1.5M or Turnover From 200k to 600k
 Form 1065                  Real Estate           Assets From 1.5M to 5M or Turnover From 600k to 2M
 Form 1065                  Real Estate            Assets From 5M to 15M or Turnover From 2M to 6M
 Form 1065                  Real Estate           Assets From 15M to 50M or Turnover From 6M to 20M
 Form 1065                  Real Estate         Assets From 50M to 1000M or Turnover From 20M to 400M
 Form 1065                  Real Estate                   Assets Over 1B or Turnover Over 400M
      Form 1120-L               ANY                                       ANY
    Form 1120-REIT              ANY                                       ANY

      Form 1120-PC             ANY                                       ANY
       Form 1120-F             ANY                                       ANY

 Also similar to the ITB survey, the BTB survey instrument consists of framing questions to improve recall for the
 key time and out-of-pocket cost questions. The key time and out-of-pocket costs questions are also similar.
Time-related questions asked respondents to allocate their time burden across (1) tax compliance activities
(such as recordkeeping, tax planning, calculating payroll taxes, and completing and submitting the federal
income tax return) and (2) the type of employee (owners, executives, clerical, and other) performing those
activities. Cost-related questions include fees paid to external service providers for tax and tax-related services,
the cost of tax-related software, and the amount spent on other tax-related activities (copies of tax returns,
postage, etc.). Survey fielding is also conducted close to when the taxpayers filed their tax returns to reduce
recall bias.

                                                                                                                       7
     To take into account likely pay rate differences within and across firms, the BTB survey asks respondents to report
     the weighted average hourly cost for the Form W-2 employees spending their work hours completing the federal
     income tax requirements. This measure can be used to help determine the monetary costs of the time spent by
     firms complying with federal income tax requirements.

     Building an Improved Model
     The IRS Taxpayer Burden Model (TBM) was developed with oversight from the Department of Treasury (Office of
     Tax Analysis), OMB, and GAO. It was first used to provide the PRA estimate for individual tax compliance burden
     in 2005. The TBM was updated to its current form in 2010, following the methodology in Contos et al. (2009a)10
     and Contos et al. (2009b)11, which modeled the compliance burden of small businesses.

     The current TBM uses a log-linear specification in which the logarithm of the burden is linearly related to a set of
     explanatory variables, described in further detail in Contos, et al. (2010)12. The dependent variable is based on
     survey responses and is defined as the logarithm of total pre-filing and filing compliance costs — that is, the
     monetized time and money taxpayers spend to comply with federal tax laws.

     The coefficients for the Individual Taxpayer Burden Model are shown in Table 3.

     The most unique aspect of modeling taxpayer compliance burden is the need to control for the type and volume of
     activities performed by taxpayers to meet their federal tax obligations. As a proxy for the volume of activities, we
     use the money amounts reported by each taxpayer for that item. This is based on the assumption that a larger
     dollar amount reported for a tax item is associated with more activity related to that item.

       Table 3
       Individual Taxpayer Regression Variables
        Intercept
       Ln(Modified Positive Income)
       Ln(Modified Positive Income) and Paid Prepared Return
       Low Complexity
       Medium Complexity
       High Complexity
       Ln(Line Count of Self Prepared Return)
       Ln(Line Count of Software Prepared Return)
       Ln(Line Count of Paid Prepared Return)
       Paid Prepared Return
       Software Prepared return




10
   Contos, George, Ardeshir Eftekaharzadeh, Brian Erard, John Gutyon, and Scott Stilmar, 2009a. “Econometric Simulation of the
Income Tax Compliance Process for Small Business.” In Proceedings of the 2009 Winter Simulation Conference, 2902- 2914. Winter
Simulation Conference. https://www.informs-sim.org/wsc09papers/281.pdf (last accessed 02/02/2023).
11
   Contos, George, John Guyton, Patrick Langetieg, and Susan Nelson, 2009b. “Taxpayer Compliance Costs For Small Businesses:
Evidence From Corporations, Partnerships, and Sole Proprietorships.” In Proceedings of the One Hundred Second Annual Conference
on Taxation, 50-59. National Tax Association, Washington, DC.
12
   Contos, George, John Guyton, Patrick Langetieg, and Melissa Vigil, 2010. “Individual Taxpayer Compliance Burden: The Role of
Assisted Methods in Taxpayer Response to Increasing Complexity.” In Proceedings of the 2100 IRS Research Conference, 191-220.
Internal Revenue Service, Washington, DC.
                                                                                                                              8
Each tax item from the primary forms and schedules is rated as “Low,” “Medium,” or “High,” assuming that burden
increases as a function of both the type of tax-related activities completed by the taxpayer as well as the volume
completed. For example, if an individual completes an additional tax item one year, holding all else constant,
compliance burden should increase because the taxpayer will have adjusted his recordkeeping, familiarized
himself with the relevant taxpayer instructions, or perhaps paid higher preparation fees. The Low, Medium, and
High Complexity coefficients are the logarithms of the sums of all the values on lines categorized as having the
corresponding complexity. Based on these coefficients, an additional dollar of activity in the high category will
increase burden more than an additional dollar in medium and low.

Dummy variables are included to measure the effect of preparation method on compliance burden when self-
preparation is the reference category. The remaining preparation categories represent paid and software
preparation. The coefficients for the preparation dummies are positive because fixed costs are associated with
using assisted methods.

The trade-off for additional tax preparation costs is a reduction in the amount of time it would have taken a
taxpayer to research and complete the tax return unassisted. In addition to preparation of their tax returns,
taxpayers may also receive tax-planning advice and can be reasonably assured that they receive all of the tax
benefits to which they are entitled. Taxpayers may also benefit from representation in the event they are
contacted by the IRS about their tax return.

To control for the efficiency gains associated with hiring a paid professional, we include in the model
specification an interaction term between the dummy variable for paid preparation and the logarithm of
modified positive income (MPI.) This interaction term takes into account the lower marginal compliance costs
associated with using a paid preparer. To control for additional efficiency gains associated with hiring a paid
professional or using software, we include three line-count variables that reflect the difference in salience of
inapplicable tax rules conditional on the taxpayer’s preparation method.

The coefficients for the Business Taxpayer Burden Model are shown in Table 4.
Table 4
Business Taxpayer Regression Variables

Intercept
Ln(Total Assets)
No Assets Indicator
Ln(Total Receipts)
No Receipts Indicator
Low Complexity
High Complexity
No Complexity
Partnership Indicator
S Corporation Indicator
Self-Prepared Indicator
Positive Tax Liability
Industry Controls


                                                                                                                     9
The dependent variable is the logarithm of total monetized compliance costs. Independent variables include the
logarithms of total assets, total receipts, and the sum of dollars reported for line items requiring either very little
or conversely significant tax-specific recordkeeping. Dummy variables for organizational form, industry, and use
of a paid tax return preparer are also included. Controlling for both assets and total receipts provides a better fit
across a range of types and sizes of businesses. Dummy variables are used for cases where either assets or
receipts are not reported.

The methodology used to develop the ITB and BTB regression specifications provides a framework that enables
the IRS to simulate the impact of changes to the underlying filing requirements that were captured by the
surveys. This capability enables the IRS to use the TBM parameters in conjunction with administrative data to
predict the impact of a changing filing requirement environment.

IV. How the Taxpayer Burden Model is Used
Reporting for the Paperwork Reduction Act
Under the ADL method, tax compliance burden is estimated for each separate form, regardless of its
relationship to other forms. Burden estimation calculations for many forms, such as the Form 8995,
Qualified Business Income Deduction Simplified Computation, are still calculated using the ADL Model.
Illustration 1 provides an example of burden reporting under the ADL method.

Illustration 1. Example of PRA Reporting For Form 1040 Using the ADL Method – TY 2004 Form 1040




 Source: TY 2004 Form 1040 instructions, page 75, available at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-prior/i1040--2004.pdf. Last
 accessed 02/02/2023
Under the improved burden estimate methodology, taxpayer compliance burden for individuals is now reported
by the main form filed (Form 1040 or 1040-SR), with time categories that are more relevant to today’s tax
return preparation experience (see Illustration 2). In addition, the estimated average monetary cost of taxpayer
compliance burden is also provided. Because self-employed taxpayers generally incur substantially higher
burden than other taxpayers, the average burden is broken out by business and non-business taxpayers. An
example of the updated reporting format is shown in Illustration 2.




                                                                                                                          10
Illustration 2: Example of PRA Reporting Using the RAAS Taxpayer Burden Model




Source: Tax Year 2022 Form 1040 Instructions, page 107, available at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/i1040gi.pdf
(last accessed 02/02/2023).

Beyond the Paperwork Reduction Act
The benefits of estimating taxpayer compliance burden go far beyond being able to meet the requirements of
the PRA. It helps the IRS support or achieve several important goals:

•   Fulfill its mission to provide top quality service to taxpayers.
•   Better understand taxpayer time and out-of-pocket cost burden.
•   Improve the accuracy and comparability of the information collection budget estimates it provides under
    the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.).
•   Provide data to be used in micro-simulation models to allow estimation of the impact of proposed
    legislation on tax compliance burden before the legislation is enacted.
•   Support ongoing analysis of the role of compliance costs in influencing taxpayer behavior and identifying
    taxpayer needs.
•   Provide information to IRS executives and Operating Divisions for assessing the impact of programs on
    taxpayer compliance burden.
•   Support the IRS executives and Operating Divisions in their efforts to identify and implement burden
    reduction initiatives.
•   Support tax analysis in the Treasury Department Offices.
•   Assist the IRS in evaluating the effectiveness and associated impact on taxpayer costs and behavior of IRS
    initiatives.

IRS employees who are responsible for implementing programs, policies, and procedures that impact taxpayers
perform a burden risk evaluation during the initial implementation phase or when changes are being
considered. This evaluation is used in conjunction with other business metrics to guide decision making. In
keeping with a balanced measures approach, tax compliance burden reduction is not considered in isolation. It is




                                                                                                                   11
 viewed as a component of customer service/satisfaction and is balanced with compliance. By weighing these
 two components and the number of taxpayers impacted, the IRS can ensure that unnecessary tax compliance
 burden is addressed and that tax compliance is not jeopardized.

 Individual Compliance Costs by Major Segments of the Tax code
 One might think that the myriad of tax deductions and credits available to individuals would contribute to the
 bulk of the complexity faced by these taxpayers. However, as shown in Chart 1, the elements of the tax law that
 deal solely with reporting income (before claiming any deductions or credits) comprise more than half of
 individual tax compliance burden.

 The pie chart was created by estimating the ITB model before and after removing each reporting item segment.
 The order in which segments were removed was based on line item dependencies, generally following the reverse
 order of line items reported on Form 1040.

 The analysis showed that over half of the individual income tax compliance costs are associated with reporting
 and substantiating income, even for taxpayers with relatively simple sources of income. Taxpayers with simpler
 sources of income also tend to have fairly simple deductions and credits, or none at all. Note that this analysis
 only considers the cost to the taxpayer. If one considers the costs of issuing information returns such as Forms
 W-2 and 1099, the overall share of income tax compliance costs would be even more heavily weighted towards
 reporting and substantiating income.




The graph data reads as follows. Deductions other than self employment tax deduction: 25%; Credits: 14%; Alternative minimum tax: no data shown; Other taxes: no data shown; Wages: 18%; Self-employment income: 19%; Other income: 18%.

  Note: Tax Year 2010. The cost of reporting the self-employment tax deduction is included in the Other taxes.
  Source: IRS Office of Research, Analysis, and Statistics, 01/02/2013

 One limitation of the measurement methodology shown in Chart 1 is that it ignores the impact that complexity
 has on what taxpayers choose not to do because it is too burdensome, such as choosing not to keep records
 necessary to claim a tax benefit or even not to comply with certain reporting requirements. Also, self-
 employed taxpayers’ time may be undervalued, given that net self-employment income may not properly
 reflect the opportunity cost of starting a new business or the complexity associated with deductions that
 offset the business’s income.

 V. Administrative Burden
 The Paperwork Reduction Act also requires federal agencies to provide the annualized administrative costs
 incurred by the federal government to collect information. These costs include personnel work hours,
 operational expenses (such as equipment, overhead, printing, and support staff), and any other expense that
 would not have been incurred without this collection of information.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12
IRS work is unique compared to other agencies in that it is driven by the tax laws passed by Congress. The IRS
develops regulations that define the information collection process and creates the collection instruments (tax
forms). The tax forms streamline the tax reporting requirements.

The IRS Special Service Section in W&I’s Tax Forms and Publications (TF&P) Division is responsible for service-
wide PRA compliance. In most agencies, the PRA program is managed at a much higher level organizationally
thereby providing data access and an enterprise view of efforts across the agency. While Special Services
Branch performs the same tasks, this sometimes presents special challenges when gathering cost information
from all the contributing units and processing the requests for information. This coupled with the complexity
of the calculation and the fact that data is not gathered in this manner across the IRS made an accurate cost
estimate difficult to develop.

Historically, the IRS did not provide the government cost estimates with its Information Collection Requests (ICRs)
because the IRS had not developed a model to determine level of effort and cost. Recently, for the taxpayer centric
ICRs, IRS has begun providing government costs, which includes for the aggregate labor costs for development,
operation and maintenance expenses, and distribution of tax products that collect information. The costs do not
include any activities such as taxpayer assistance or enforcement costs. In addition, IRS includes the government cost
estimates for processing tax returns and performing related functions in the Submission Processing Campus(es)
includes salaries and benefits only.

Methodology
To devise a methodology that accurately addresses the requirements of the PRA, the technical staff from TF&P
responsible for the PRA collaborated with the IRS Central Finance Office (CFO) and the IRS Research, Applied
Analytics, and Statistics division to develop a sound methodology as outlined below. Government costs were
separated into three cost areas: Form development, printing and distribution for forms and downstream
impacts associated with form development.

For form development, the key variables are the job series of the staff performing the work, the percentage of
time the task was completed, and the source of cost data. This method was repeated for printing and
distribution costs and in addition we identified the costs for printing and distribution for each form

Downstream costs were identified as aggregated costs of all support functions as allocated to each function
performing tasks in form development and printing and distribution.




                                                                                                                    13
Category                        Functions                                *Source

Form Development                TFP: Tax Law Specialists, Reviewers,     Data from CFO, IFS
                                Technical Leads, Management
                                Publishing: Composition Specialist,
                                Webmasters, Management
                                Chief Counsel: Attorneys (10%)
Printing and Distribution       Distribution: NDC Staff and HQ           Data from CFO, IFS,
                                forecasting analysts                     Printing and Distribution
                                Publishing: Contract information
Downstream Impacts              Aggregated costs of all support          Data from CFO, IFS
                                functions as allocated to functions
                                above

                                    Total Government Cost Estimate
** CFO will provide aggregate data for developing products beginning to end to be used in our weighted
                                                model




                                                                                                         14
Once costs areas were identified, a weighted factor was created to determine a per-product cost. Each product
was assigned a weighted number. All aggregated costs for allocable costs for form development and
downstream impacts are applied to each product in the ratio of the products weighted number to the total of all
products’ weighted number. The results were modified to take into account the amount of work required based
on whether the document is a publication, form instructions, a tax form, etc.
The weighted number for a product is determined as follows:

    1. Number of pages in the product multiplied by adjustment factors below.
    2. Forms’ page count is deemed to be 50 because of the WRNs and other work involved per page of a
       form; Instructions’ page counts are multiplied by 2; Publications and other products are not adjusted
       (multiplied by 1).
    3. Annual and quarterly products are multiplied by 3; Continuous use products are multiplied by 1 since
       they aren’t revised as often.
    4. Products with TF&P Signoff level that is at the branch level are multiplied by 1.3; those less complicated
       products for which the reviewer has the final signoff are multiplied by 1. Those reviewed at the branch
       level are more complicated thus requiring the extra review.
    5. Critical products, CIFS and CTB, are multiplied by 1.3 (all others multiplied by 1) due to the extra
       management and other work required.
    6. Form 1040 and Instructions weights are doubled due to the extra work involved.

Note: The relative weighted factors for each product were developed based on the metadata available for each
product and historical knowledge of the impact on workload of each piece of metadata as described above using
over 20 years of subject matter expertise.

VI. Burden Estimate Transition
At the request of the OMB Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, W&I’s TF&P team and RAAS are
transitioning the tax compliance burden estimation method for all tax forms and regulations to the preferred
RAAS method. Doing so will allow IRS to consolidate 707 OMB control numbers into as few as nine taxpayer-
centric segments, including the individual taxpayer and business entity taxpayer segments that have already
been transitioned. One additional control number may be needed for information collections that don’t fit
elsewhere.

Forms that are used solely by one type of taxpayer (e.g., Form 1040 is filed only by individual taxpayers) will be
included in the OMB data collection for that segment. Forms that are used by more than one type of taxpayer
will be consolidated into the OMB number of the segment whose taxpayers incur most of the annual compliance
burden. The same process will be used to consolidate the related regulations.

Important: Because the RAAS burden method takes into account the tax compliance burden incurred on the
returns that are actually filed, it automatically considers all of the forms and schedules used by a given segment
and all of the underlying regulations that apply, regardless of the OMB number to which a form or regulation is
assigned.

To complete the burden estimation transition work, RAAS must gather the burden data from the relevant
taxpayers, analyze that data and the matched administrative data, and develop and test the related modeling
capability. As each transition occurs, the Federal Register Notice will include information about the transition
and list the forms, schedules, and regulations that are included in the resulting consolidated segment.




                                                                                                                     15
Table 5: Taxpayer Segments for Consolidated Reporting

                                       Fiscal Year of   Consolidated
                Category
                                         Transition        OMB #
    Individual Taxpayers                   2005          1545-0074
    Business Entities                      2014          1545-0123
    Tax-Exempt Organizations               2018          1545-0047
    Employer                                TBD          1545-0029
    Information Return Issuers              TBD          1545-0008
    Trust and Estate Income Tax             TBD          1545-0092
    Transfer Taxes (Estate and Gift)        TBD          1545-0015
    Pension Plans                           TBD          1545-0197
    Excise Taxes                            TBD          1545-0023
    Reserved                                TBD             TBD


  In addition to transitioning all tax compliance estimates to the RAAS method, the IRS will begin reporting the
  administrative burden associated with each burden information collection. Doing so will help make the total
  costof tax compliance transparent to taxpayers and policy makers.

  VII. Summary
  Unlike other federal information collection burden, taxpayer compliance burden is imposed by legislation
  created and passed into law by Congress. The IRS is tasked with administering and enforcing the law, taking
  tradeoffs between burden imposition and revenue protection into consideration. Although the IRS is required to
  estimate and report taxpayer compliance burden, the benefits of doing so go far beyond complying with the
  Paperwork Reduction Act.

  Through taxpayer compliance burden research conducted by the IRS Research, Applied Analytics, and Statistics
  department, with guidance from OMB, TF&P, the Treasury Office of Tax Analysis, and input from other internal
  and external stakeholders, the IRS is better able to understand the drivers of compliance burden as well as how
  changes in tax law and IRS administrative processes impact burden.It also allows the IRS to estimate tax
  compliance burden based on a taxpayer-centric view of the time and money taxpayers spend to comply with
  their federal income tax filing requirements, amend a return, or resolve an issue with a return. Taxpayer burden
  surveys ensure that the Taxpayer Burden Model, which is used to produce the tax compliance burden
  estimates, reflects the impact of changing tax law, administrative practices, technology infrastructure, and
  choice of return preparation and filing method.

  The transition of all form burden estimation from the legacy A. D. Little method to the preferred taxpayer
  centric methodology is an important step in improving how taxpayers and the IRS understand taxpayer
  compliance burden, both in terms of time and monetary costs. By also providing information on related
  administrative burden, the full picture of the cost of complying with tax law can be reported.


         Thank You: The IRS appreciates the taxpayers who are selected to receive a taxpayer burden
         survey and who take the time to respond. The information they provide makes it possible to
         create, update, and expand the Taxpayer Burden Model and helps ensure that the model
         produces estimates that are representative of all taxpayers’ tax compliance burden. We can only
         survey a small sample of taxpayers each time, so every response counts.



                                                                                                                     16
APPENDIX A – Individual Taxpayer Burden Survey Complexity Strata Definitions

       Strata          Definition

       Low             Wage income;
                       Interest income;
                       Unemployment income;
                       Withholding;
                       Earning income tax credit (with no qualifying children) or advanced EIC;
                       Does not meet any of the conditions for higher levels of differential burden
       Low-Medium      Capital gain income (includes capital gains distributions and undistributed
                       capital gains);
                       Dividend income;
                       Earned income tax credit (with qualifying children);
                       Estimated tax payments;
                       Retirement income (includes SS benefits, IRA distributions, or pensions and
                       annuities); Any non-refundable credit (includes child and dependent care
                       expenses, education credits, child tax credit, elderly or disabled credit);
                       Household employees;
                       Non-business adjustments;
                       Does not meet any of the conditions for higher levels of differential burden
       Medium          Itemized deductions (includes mortgage interest, interest paid to financial
                       institution; charitable contributions, and medical expenses); Foreign
                       income, expense, tax, credit, or payment;
                       Moving expenses;
                       Simple Schedule C;
                       General business credit;
                       Does not meet any of the conditions for higher levels of differential burden
       Medium-High     Farm income as reported on Schedule F;
                       Owns rental property as reported on Schedule E, including farm rental and low-
                       income housing;
                       Estate or trust income as reported on Schedule E;
                       Employee business expense deductions;
                       Files AMT without AMT preference items;
                       Prior year alternative minimum tax credit;
                       Investment interest expense deduction;
                       Net loss as reported on Schedule C;
                       Depreciation or amortization as reported on Schedule C;
                       Expenses for business use of home as reported on Schedule C;
                       Does not meet any of the conditions for higher levels of differential burden
       High            Cost of goods sold as reported on Schedule C;
                       Partnership or S-Corp income as reported on Schedule
                       E; Files AMT with AMT preference items




                                                                                                        17
