Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

Contents
What's New for 2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Publication 590

What's New for 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Cat. No. 15160X

Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Individual
Retirement
Arrangements
(IRAs)

Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

For use in preparing

2013 Returns

Chapter 1. Traditional IRAs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Who Can Open a Traditional IRA? . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
When Can a Traditional IRA Be Opened? . . . . . . . 8
How Can a Traditional IRA Be Opened? . . . . . . . . 8
How Much Can Be Contributed? . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
When Can Contributions Be Made? . . . . . . . . . . 11
How Much Can You Deduct? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
What if You Inherit an IRA? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Can You Move Retirement Plan Assets? . . . . . . 22
When Can You Withdraw or Use Assets? . . . . . . 32
When Must You Withdraw Assets? (Required
Minimum Distributions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Are Distributions Taxable? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional
Taxes? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Chapter 2. Roth IRAs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
What Is a Roth IRA? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
When Can a Roth IRA Be Opened? . . . . . . . . . . 63
Can You Contribute to a Roth IRA? . . . . . . . . . . 63
Can You Move Amounts Into a Roth IRA? . . . . . . 68
Are Distributions Taxable? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Must You Withdraw or Use Assets? . . . . . . . . . . 75
Chapter 3. Savings Incentive Match Plans for
Employees (SIMPLE) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
What Is a SIMPLE Plan? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
How Are Contributions Made? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
How Much Can Be Contributed on Your
Behalf? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
When Can You Withdraw or Use Assets? . . . . . . 79
Chapter 4. Retirement Savings Contributions
Credit (Saver's Credit) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Chapter 5. How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Appendices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111

Note. After 2013, Publication 590 will be split into two
separate publications as follows.

Get forms and other Information
faster and easier by
Internet at IRS.gov
Jan 05, 2014

Publication 590-A, will focus on contributions to
traditional IRAs as well as Roth IRAs. This publication
will include the rules for rollover and conversion
contributions.
Publication 590-B, will focus on distributions from
traditional IRAs as well as Roth IRAs. This publication

will include the rules for required minimum
distributions and IRA beneficiaries.

What's New for 2013
Traditional IRA contribution and deduction limit. The
contribution limit to your traditional IRA for 2013 will be increased to the smaller of the following amounts:
$5,500, or
Your taxable compensation for the year.
If you were age 50 or older before 2014, the most that
can be contributed to your traditional IRA for 2013 will be
the smaller of the following amounts:
$6,500, or
Your taxable compensation for the year.
For more information, see How Much Can Be Contributed? in chapter 1.
Roth IRA contribution limit. If contributions on your behalf are made only to Roth IRAs, your contribution limit for
2013 will generally be the lesser of:
$5,500, or
Your taxable compensation for the year.
If you were age 50 or older before 2014 and contributions on your behalf were made only to Roth IRAs, your
contribution limit for 2013 will generally be the lesser of:
$6,500, or
Your taxable compensation for the year.
However, if your modified adjusted gross income (AGI) is
above a certain amount, your contribution limit may be reduced.
For more information, see How Much Can Be Contributed? under Can You Contribute to a Roth IRA? in chapter 2.
Modified AGI limit for traditional IRA contributions increased. For 2013, if you were covered by a retirement
plan at work, your deduction for contributions to a traditional IRA is reduced (phased out) if your modified AGI is:
More than $95,000 but less than $115,000 for a married couple filing a joint return or a qualifying
widow(er),

Modified AGI limit for Roth IRA contributions increased. For 2013, your Roth IRA contribution limit is reduced (phased out) in the following situations.
Your filing status is married filing jointly or qualifying
widow(er) and your modified AGI is at least $178,000.
You cannot make a Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $188,000 or more.
Your filing status is single, head of household, or married filing separately and you did not live with your
spouse at any time in 2013 and your modified AGI is
at least $112,000. You cannot make a Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $127,000 or more.
Your filing status is married filing separately, you lived
with your spouse at any time during the year, and your
modified AGI is more than -0-. You cannot make a
Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $10,000
or more.
See Can You Contribute to a Roth IRA? in chapter 2.
Net Investment Income Tax. For purposes of the Net
Investment Income Tax (NIIT), net investment income
does not include distributions from a qualified retirement
plan (for example, 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 457(b) plans,
and IRAs). However, these distributions are taken into account when determining the modified adjusted gross income threshold. Distributions from a nonqualified retirement plan are included in net investment income. See
Form 8960, Net Investment Income Tax—Individuals, Estates, and Trusts, and its instructions for more information.
Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA. In 2013, spousal
IRAs were renamed to Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal
IRAs. There are no changes to the rules regarding these
IRAs. See Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA Limit in
chapter 1 for more information.

What's New for 2014
Modified AGI limit for traditional IRA contributions increased. For 2014, if you are covered by a retirement
plan at work, your deduction for contributions to a traditional IRA is reduced (phased out) if your modified AGI is:
More than $96,000 but less than $116,000 for a married couple filing a joint return or a qualifying
widow(er),
More than $60,000 but less than $70,000 for a single
individual or head of household, or

More than $59,000 but less than $69,000 for a single
individual or head of household, or

Less than $10,000 for a married individual filing a separate return.

Less than $10,000 for a married individual filing a separate return.

If you either live with your spouse or file a joint return,
and your spouse is covered by a retirement plan at work,
but you are not, your deduction is phased out if your modified AGI is more than $181,000 but less than $191,000. If
your modified AGI is $191,000 or more, you cannot take a
deduction for contributions to a traditional IRA.

If you either lived with your spouse or file a joint return,
and your spouse was covered by a retirement plan at
work, but you were not, your deduction is phased out if
your modified AGI is more than $178,000 but less than
$188,000. If your modified AGI is $188,000 or more, you
cannot take a deduction for contributions to a traditional
IRA. See How Much Can You Deduct? in chapter 1.
Page 2

Publication 590 (2013)

Modified AGI limit for Roth IRA contributions increased. For 2014, your Roth IRA contribution limit is reduced (phased out) in the following situations.
Your filing status is married filing jointly or qualifying
widow(er) and your modified AGI is at least $181,000.
You cannot make a Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $191,000 or more.
Your filing status is single, head of household, or married filing separately and you did not live with your
spouse at any time in 2014 and your modified AGI is
at least $114,000. You cannot make a Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $129,000 or more.
Your filing status is married filing separately, you lived
with your spouse at any time during the year, and your
modified AGI is more than -0-. You cannot make a
Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $10,000
or more.

Reminders
Future developments. For the latest information about
developments related to Publication 590, such as legislation enacted after it was published, go to www.irs.gov/
pub590.
Simplified employee pension (SEP). SEP IRAs are not
covered in this publication. They are covered in Publication 560, Retirement Plans for Small Business.
Deemed IRAs. A qualified employer plan (retirement
plan) can maintain a separate account or annuity under
the plan (a deemed IRA) to receive voluntary employee
contributions. If the separate account or annuity otherwise
meets the requirements of an IRA, it will be subject only to
IRA rules. An employee's account can be treated as a traditional IRA or a Roth IRA.
For this purpose, a “qualified employer plan” includes:
A qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus
plan (section 401(a) plan),
A qualified employee annuity plan (section 403(a)
plan),
A tax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan), and
A deferred compensation plan (section 457 plan)
maintained by a state, a political subdivision of a state,
or an agency or instrumentality of a state or political
subdivision of a state.
Contributions to both traditional and Roth IRAs. For
information on your combined contribution limit if you contribute to both traditional and Roth IRAs, see Roth IRAs
and traditional IRAs under How Much Can Be Contributed? in chapter 2.
Statement of required minimum distribution (RMD).
If an RMD is required from your IRA, the trustee, custodian, or issuer that held the IRA at the end of the preceding year must either report the amount of the RMD to you,
or offer to calculate it for you. The report or offer must include the date by which the amount must be distributed.
Publication 590 (2013)

The report is due January 31 of the year in which the minimum distribution is required. It can be provided with the
year-end fair market value statement that you normally get
each year. No report is required for section 403(b) contracts (generally tax-sheltered annuities) or for IRAs of
owners who have died.
IRA interest. Although interest earned from your IRA is
generally not taxed in the year earned, it is not tax-exempt
interest. Tax on your traditional IRA is generally deferred
until you take a distribution. Do not report this interest on
your return as tax-exempt interest. For more information
on tax-exempt interest, see the instructions for your tax return.
Photographs of missing children. The Internal Revenue Service is a proud partner with the National Center for
Missing and Exploited Children. Photographs of missing
children selected by the Center may appear in this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank. You can
help bring these children home by looking at the photographs and calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if
you recognize a child.

Introduction
This publication discusses individual retirement arrangements (IRAs). An IRA is a personal savings plan that gives
you tax advantages for setting aside money for retirement.
What are some tax advantages of an IRA? Two tax
advantages of an IRA are that:
Contributions you make to an IRA may be fully or partially deductible, depending on which type of IRA you
have and on your circumstances, and
Generally, amounts in your IRA (including earnings
and gains) are not taxed until distributed. In some cases, amounts are not taxed at all if distributed according to the rules.
What's in this publication? This publication discusses
traditional, Roth, and SIMPLE IRAs. It explains the rules
for:
Setting up an IRA,
Contributing to an IRA,
Transferring money or property to and from an IRA,
Handling an inherited IRA,
Receiving distributions (making withdrawals) from an
IRA, and
Taking a credit for contributions to an IRA.
It also explains the penalties and additional taxes that
apply when the rules are not followed. To assist you in
complying with the tax rules for IRAs, this publication contains worksheets, sample forms, and tables, which can be
found throughout the publication and in the appendices at
the back of the publication.
Page 3

How to use this publication. The rules that you must
follow depend on which type of IRA you have. Use Table
I-1 to help you determine which parts of this publication to
read. Also use Table I-1 if you were referred to this publication from instructions to a form.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and your suggestions for future editions.
You can write to us at the following address:
Internal Revenue Service
Tax Forms and Publications Division
1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526
Washington, DC 20224

571 Tax-Sheltered Annuity Plans (403(b) Plans)
575 Pension and Annuity Income
939 General Rule for Pensions and Annuities
Forms (and instructions)
W­4P Withholding Certificate for Pension or Annuity
Payments
1099­R Distributions From Pensions, Annuities,
Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs,
Insurance Contracts, etc.
5304­SIMPLE Savings Incentive Match Plan for
Employees of Small Employers (SIMPLE)–Not
for Use With a Designated Financial Institution

We respond to many letters by telephone. Therefore, it
would be helpful if you would include your daytime phone
number, including the area code, in your correspondence.
You can send your comments from www.irs.gov/
formspubs/. Click on “More Information” and then on
“Comment on Tax Forms and Publications”.
Although we cannot respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments as we revise our tax products.

5305­S SIMPLE Individual Retirement Trust Account

Ordering forms and publications. Visit www.irs.gov/
formspubs/ to download forms and publications, call
1-800-TAX-FORM (1-800-829-3676), or write to the address below and receive a response within 10 days after
your request is received.

5498 IRA Contribution Information

Internal Revenue Service
1201 N. Mitsubishi Motorway
Bloomington, IL 61705-6613
Tax questions. If you have a tax question, check the
information available on IRS.gov or call 1-800-829-1040.
We cannot answer tax questions sent to either of the
above addresses.

5305­SA SIMPLE Individual Retirement Custodial
Account
5305­SIMPLE Savings Incentive Match Plan for
Employees of Small Employers (SIMPLE)–for
Use With a Designated Financial Institution
5329 Additional Taxes on Qualified Plans (Including
IRAs) and Other Tax-Favored Accounts
8606 Nondeductible IRAs
8815 Exclusion of Interest From Series EE and I
U.S. Savings Bonds Issued After 1989
8839 Qualified Adoption Expenses
8880 Credit for Qualified Retirement Savings
Contributions
See chapter 5 for information about getting these publications and forms.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publications
560 Retirement Plans for Small Business (SEP,
SIMPLE, and Qualified Plans)

Page 4

Publication 590 (2013)

Table I­1. Using This Publication
IF you need
information on ...

THEN see ...

traditional IRAs

chapter 1.

Roth IRAs

chapter 2, and parts of
chapter 1.

SIMPLE IRAs

chapter 3.

the credit for qualified retirement savings contributions
(the saver's credit)

chapter 4.

how to keep a record of your contributions to, and
distributions from, your traditional IRA(s)

appendix A.

SEP IRAs and 401(k) plans

Publication 560.

Coverdell education savings accounts (formerly called
education IRAs)

Publication 970.

IF for 2013, you
received social security benefits,

THEN see ...

had taxable compensation,
contributed to a traditional IRA, and
you or your spouse was covered by an employer
retirement plan,
and you want to...
first figure your modified adjusted gross income (AGI)

appendix B, worksheet 1.

then figure how much of your traditional IRA contribution
you can deduct

appendix B, worksheet 2.

and finally figure how much of your social security is
taxable

appendix B, worksheet 3.

Publication 590 (2013)

Page 5

Table I-2. How Are a Traditional IRA and a Roth IRA Different?
This table shows the differences between traditional and Roth IRAs. Answers in the middle column apply to traditional
IRAs. Answers in the right column apply to Roth IRAs.
Question

Is there an age limit on when I can open
and contribute to a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Answer
Traditional IRA?

Roth IRA?

Yes. You must not have reached age
701 2 by the end of the year. See Who
Can Open a Traditional IRA? in
chapter 1.

No. You can be any age. See Can You
Contribute to a Roth IRA? in chapter 2.

Yes. For 2013, you can contribute to a
traditional IRA up to:
$5,500, or

Yes. For 2013, you may be able to
contribute to a Roth IRA up to:
$5,500, or

If I earned more than $5,500 in 2013
$6,500 if you were age 50 or older
($6,500 if I was 50 or older by the end of
by the end of 2013.
2013), is there a limit on how much I can
There
is no upper limit on how much
contribute to a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
you can earn and still contribute. See
How Much Can Be Contributed? in
chapter 1.

$6,500 if you were age 50 or older
by the end of 2013,
but the amount you can contribute may
be less than that depending on your
income, filing status, and if you
contribute to another IRA. See How
Much Can Be Contributed? and Table
2-1 in chapter 2.

Can I deduct contributions to a . . . . . . .

Yes. You may be able to deduct your
contributions to a traditional IRA
depending on your income, filing
status, whether you are covered by a
retirement plan at work, and whether
you receive social security benefits.
See How Much Can You Deduct? in
chapter 1.

No. You can never deduct contributions
to a Roth IRA. See What Is a Roth IRA?
in chapter 2.

Do I have to file a form just because I
contribute to a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Not unless you make nondeductible
contributions to your traditional IRA. In
No. You do not have to file a form if you
that case, you must file Form 8606. See contribute to a Roth IRA. See
Nondeductible Contributions in
Contributions not reported in chapter 2.
chapter 1.

Do I have to start taking distributions
when I reach a certain age from a . . . . .

Yes. You must begin receiving required
minimum distributions by April 1 of the
year following the year you reach age
701 2. See When Must You Withdraw
Assets? (Required Minimum
Distributions) in chapter 1.

No. If you are the original owner of a
Roth IRA, you do not have to take
distributions regardless of your age.
See Are Distributions Taxable? in
chapter 2. However, if you are the
beneficiary of a Roth IRA, you may
have to take distributions. See
Distributions After Owner's Death in
chapter 2.

How are distributions taxed from a . . . . .

Distributions from a traditional IRA are
taxed as ordinary income, but if you
made nondeductible contributions, not
all of the distribution is taxable. See Are
Distributions Taxable? in chapter 1.

Distributions from a Roth IRA are not
taxed as long as you meet certain
criteria. See Are Distributions Taxable?
in chapter 2.

Do I have to file a form just because I
receive distributions from a . . . . . . . . . .

Not unless you have ever made a
nondeductible contribution to a
traditional IRA. If you have, file Form
8606. See Nondeductible Contributions
in chapter 1.

Yes. File Form 8606 if you received
distributions from a Roth IRA (other
than a rollover, qualified charitable
distribution, one-time distribution to
fund an HSA, recharacterization,
certain qualified distributions, or a
return of certain contributions).

Page 6

Publication 590 (2013)

1.
Traditional IRAs
What's New for 2013
Traditional IRA contribution and deduction limit. The
contribution limit to your traditional IRA for 2013 will be increased to the smaller of the following amounts:
$5,500, or
Your taxable compensation for the year.
If you were age 50 or older before 2014, the most that
can be contributed to your traditional IRA for 2013 will be
the smaller of the following amounts:
$6,500, or
Your taxable compensation for the year.
For more information, see How Much Can Be Contributed? in this chapter.
Modified AGI limit for traditional IRA contributions increased. For 2013, if you were covered by a retirement
plan at work, your deduction for contributions to a traditional IRA is reduced (phased out) if your modified AGI is:
More than $95,000 but less than $115,000 for a married couple filing a joint return or a qualifying
widow(er),
More than $59,000 but less than $69,000 for a single
individual or head of household, or
Less than $10,000 for a married individual filing a separate return.
If you either lived with your spouse or file a joint return,
and your spouse was covered by a retirement plan at
work, but you were not, your deduction is phased out if
your modified AGI is more than $178,000 but less than
$188,000. If your modified AGI is $188,000 or more, you
cannot take a deduction for contributions to a traditional
IRA. See How Much Can You Deduct? in this chapter.
Net Investment Income Tax. For purposes of the Net
Investment Income Tax (NIIT), net investment income
does not include distributions from a qualified retirement
plan (for example, 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 457(b) plans,
and IRAs). However, these distributions are taken into account when determining the modified adjusted gross income threshold. Distributions from a nonqualified retirement plan are included in net investment income. See

Form 8960, Net Investment Income Tax—Individuals, Estates, and Trusts, and its instructions for more information.

What's New for 2014
Modified AGI limit for traditional IRA contributions increased. For 2014, if you are covered by a retirement
plan at work, your deduction for contributions to a traditional IRA is reduced (phased out) if your modified AGI is:
More than $96,000 but less than $116,000 for a married couple filing a joint return or a qualifying
widow(er),
More than $60,000 but less than $70,000 for a single
individual or head of household, or
Less than $10,000 for a married individual filing a separate return.
If you either live with your spouse or file a joint return,
and your spouse is covered by a retirement plan at work,
but you are not, your deduction is phased out if your modified AGI is more than $181,000 but less than $191,000. If
your modified AGI is $191,000 or more, you cannot take a
deduction for contributions to a traditional IRA.

Introduction
This chapter discusses the original IRA. In this publication
the original IRA (sometimes called an ordinary or regular
IRA) is referred to as a “traditional IRA.” A traditional IRA
is any IRA that is not a Roth IRA or a SIMPLE IRA. The
following are two advantages of a traditional IRA:
You may be able to deduct some or all of your contributions to it, depending on your circumstances.
Generally, amounts in your IRA, including earnings
and gains, are not taxed until they are distributed.

Who Can Open
a Traditional IRA?
You can open and make contributions to a traditional IRA
if:
You (or, if you file a joint return, your spouse) received
taxable compensation during the year, and
You were not age 701 2 by the end of the year.
You can have a traditional IRA whether or not you are
covered by any other retirement plan. However, you may
not be able to deduct all of your contributions if you or
your spouse is covered by an employer retirement plan.
See How Much Can You Deduct, later.
Both spouses have compensation. If both you and
your spouse have compensation and are under age 701 2,
each of you can open an IRA. You cannot both participate
in the same IRA. If you file a joint return, only one of you
needs to have compensation.
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 7

What Is Compensation?
Generally, compensation is what you earn from working.
For a summary of what compensation does and does not
include, see Table 1-1. Compensation includes all of the
items discussed next (even if you have more than one
type).
Wages, salaries, etc. Wages, salaries, tips, professional
fees, bonuses, and other amounts you receive for providing personal services are compensation. The IRS treats
as compensation any amount properly shown in box 1
(Wages, tips, other compensation) of Form W-2, Wage
and Tax Statement, provided that amount is reduced by
any amount properly shown in box 11 (Nonqualified
plans). Scholarship and fellowship payments are compensation for IRA purposes only if shown in box 1 of Form
W-2.
Commissions. An amount you receive that is a percentage of profits or sales price is compensation.
Self­employment income. If you are self-employed (a
sole proprietor or a partner), compensation is the net
earnings from your trade or business (provided your personal services are a material income-producing factor) reduced by the total of:
The deduction for contributions made on your behalf
to retirement plans, and
The deduction allowed for the deductible part of your
self-employment taxes.
Compensation includes earnings from self-employment
even if they are not subject to self-employment tax because of your religious beliefs.
Self-employment loss. If you have a net loss from
self-employment, do not subtract the loss from your salaries or wages when figuring your total compensation.
Alimony and separate maintenance. For IRA purposes, compensation includes any taxable alimony and separate maintenance payments you receive under a decree
of divorce or separate maintenance.
Nontaxable combat pay. If you were a member of the
U.S. Armed Forces, compensation includes any nontaxable combat pay you received. This amount should be reported in box 12 of your 2013 Form W-2 with code Q.

Table 1-1. Compensation for Purposes
of an IRA
Includes ...

wages, salaries, etc.

commissions.

self-employment income.
alimony and separate maintenance.

nontaxable combat pay.

Does not include ...
earnings and profits from
property.
interest and
dividend income.
pension or annuity
income.
deferred compensation.
income from certain
partnerships.
any amounts you exclude
from income.

What Is Not Compensation?
Compensation does not include any of the following
items.
Earnings and profits from property, such as rental income, interest income, and dividend income.
Pension or annuity income.
Deferred compensation received (compensation payments postponed from a past year).
Income from a partnership for which you do not provide services that are a material income-producing
factor.
Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) payments reported on Schedule SE (Form 1040), line 1b.
Any amounts (other than combat pay) you exclude
from income, such as foreign earned income and
housing costs.

When Can a Traditional IRA
Be Opened?
You can open a traditional IRA at any time. However, the
time for making contributions for any year is limited. See
When Can Contributions Be Made, later.

How Can a Traditional IRA
Be Opened?
You can open different kinds of IRAs with a variety of organizations. You can open an IRA at a bank or other financial institution or with a mutual fund or life insurance

Page 8

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

company. You can also open an IRA through your stockbroker. Any IRA must meet Internal Revenue Code requirements. The requirements for the various
arrangements are discussed below.
Kinds of traditional IRAs. Your traditional IRA can be
an individual retirement account or annuity. It can be part
of either a simplified employee pension (SEP) or an employer or employee association trust account.

Individual Retirement Account
An individual retirement account is a trust or custodial account set up in the United States for the exclusive benefit
of you or your beneficiaries. The account is created by a
written document. The document must show that the account meets all of the following requirements.
The trustee or custodian must be a bank, a federally
insured credit union, a savings and loan association,
or an entity approved by the IRS to act as trustee or
custodian.
The trustee or custodian generally cannot accept contributions of more than the deductible amount for the
year. However, rollover contributions and employer
contributions to a simplified employee pension (SEP)
can be more than this amount.
Contributions, except for rollover contributions, must
be in cash. See Rollovers, later.
You must have a nonforfeitable right to the amount at
all times.
Money in your account cannot be used to buy a life insurance policy.
Assets in your account cannot be combined with other
property, except in a common trust fund or common
investment fund.
You must start receiving distributions by April 1 of the
year following the year in which you reach age 701 2.
See When Must You Withdraw Assets? (Required
Minimum Distributions), later.

Individual Retirement Annuity
You can open an individual retirement annuity by purchasing an annuity contract or an endowment contract from a
life insurance company.
An individual retirement annuity must be issued in your
name as the owner, and either you or your beneficiaries
who survive you are the only ones who can receive the
benefits or payments.
An individual retirement annuity must meet all the following requirements.
Your entire interest in the contract must be nonforfeitable.
The contract must provide that you cannot transfer
any portion of it to any person other than the issuer.
There must be flexible premiums so that if your compensation changes, your payment can also change.

This provision applies to contracts issued after November 6, 1978.
The contract must provide that contributions cannot
be more than the deductible amount for an IRA for the
year, and that you must use any refunded premiums
to pay for future premiums or to buy more benefits before the end of the calendar year after the year in
which you receive the refund.
Distributions must begin by April 1 of the year following the year in which you reach age 701 2. See When
Must You Withdraw Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions), later.

Individual Retirement Bonds
The sale of individual retirement bonds issued by the federal government was suspended after April 30, 1982. The
bonds have the following features.
They stop earning interest when you reach age 701 2. If
you die, interest will stop 5 years after your death, or
on the date you would have reached age 701 2, whichever is earlier.
You cannot transfer the bonds.
If you cash (redeem) the bonds before the year in which
you reach age 591 2, you may be subject to a 10% additional tax. See Age 591 2 Rule under Early Distributions,
later. You can roll over redemption proceeds into IRAs.

Simplified Employee Pension (SEP)
A simplified employee pension (SEP) is a written arrangement that allows your employer to make deductible contributions to a traditional IRA (a SEP IRA) set up for you to
receive such contributions. Generally, distributions from
SEP IRAs are subject to the withdrawal and tax rules that
apply to traditional IRAs. See Publication 560 for more information about SEPs.

Employer and Employee
Association Trust Accounts
Your employer or your labor union or other employee association can set up a trust to provide individual retirement
accounts for employees or members. The requirements
for individual retirement accounts apply to these traditional IRAs.

Required Disclosures
The trustee or issuer (sometimes called the sponsor) of
your traditional IRA generally must give you a disclosure
statement at least 7 days before you open your IRA. However, the sponsor does not have to give you the statement
until the date you open (or purchase, if earlier) your IRA,
provided you are given at least 7 days from that date to revoke the IRA.
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 9

The disclosure statement must explain certain items in
plain language. For example, the statement should explain when and how you can revoke the IRA, and include
the name, address, and telephone number of the person
to receive the notice of cancellation. This explanation
must appear at the beginning of the disclosure statement.
If you revoke your IRA within the revocation period, the
sponsor must return to you the entire amount you paid.
The sponsor must report on the appropriate IRS forms
both your contribution to the IRA (unless it was made by a
trustee-to-trustee transfer) and the amount returned to
you. These requirements apply to all sponsors.

How Much Can Be
Contributed?
There are limits and other rules that affect the amount that
can be contributed to a traditional IRA. These limits and
rules are explained below.
Community property laws. Except as discussed later
under Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA Limit, each
spouse figures his or her limit separately, using his or her
own compensation. This is the rule even in states with
community property laws.
Brokers' commissions. Brokers' commissions paid in
connection with your traditional IRA are subject to the contribution limit. For information about whether you can deduct brokers' commissions, see Brokers' commissions,
later, under How Much Can You Deduct.
Trustees' fees. Trustees' administrative fees are not
subject to the contribution limit. For information about
whether you can deduct trustees' fees, see Trustees' fees,
later, under How Much Can You Deduct.
Qualified reservist repayments. If you were a member
of a reserve component and you were ordered or called to
active duty after September 11, 2001, you may be able to
contribute (repay) to an IRA amounts equal to any qualified reservist distributions (defined later under Early Distributions) you received. You can make these repayment
contributions even if they would cause your total contributions to the IRA to be more than the general limit on contributions. To be eligible to make these repayment contributions, you must have received a qualified reservist
distribution from an IRA or from a section 401(k) or 403(b)
plan or a similar arrangement.
Limit. Your qualified reservist repayments cannot be
more than your qualified reservist distributions, explained
under Early Distributions, later.
When repayment contributions can be made. You
cannot make these repayment contributions later than the
date that is 2 years after your active duty period ends.
No deduction. You cannot deduct qualified reservist
repayments.
Page 10

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Reserve component. The term “reserve component”
means the:
Army National Guard of the United States,
Army Reserve,
Naval Reserve,
Marine Corps Reserve,
Air National Guard of the United States,
Air Force Reserve,
Coast Guard Reserve, or
Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service.
Figuring your IRA deduction. The repayment of
qualified reservist distributions does not affect the amount
you can deduct as an IRA contribution.
Reporting the repayment. If you repay a qualified reservist distribution, include the amount of the repayment
with nondeductible contributions on line 1 of Form 8606.
Example. In 2013, your IRA contribution limit is
$5,500. However, because of your filing status and AGI,
the limit on the amount you can deduct is $3,500. You can
make a nondeductible contribution of $2,000 ($5,500 $3,500). In an earlier year you received a $3,000 qualified
reservist distribution, which you would like to repay this
year.
For 2013, you can contribute a total of $8,500 to your
IRA. This is made up of the maximum deductible contribution of $3,500; a nondeductible contribution of $2,000;
and a $3,000 qualified reservist repayment. You contribute the maximum allowable for the year. Since you are
making a nondeductible contribution ($2,000) and a qualified reservist repayment ($3,000), you must file Form
8606 with your return and include $5,000 ($2,000 +
$3,000) on line 1 of Form 8606. The qualified reservist repayment is not deductible.

!

CAUTION

Contributions on your behalf to a traditional IRA
reduce your limit for contributions to a Roth IRA.
See chapter 2 for information about Roth IRAs.

General Limit
For 2013, the most that can be contributed to your traditional IRA generally is the smaller of the following
amounts:
$5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older), or
Your taxable compensation (defined earlier) for the
year.
Note. This limit is reduced by any contributions to a
section 501(c)(18) plan (generally, a pension plan created
before June 25, 1959, that is funded entirely by employee
contributions).
This is the most that can be contributed regardless of
whether the contributions are to one or more traditional

IRAs or whether all or part of the contributions are nondeductible. (See Nondeductible Contributions, later.) Qualified reservist repayments do not affect this limit.
Examples. George, who is 34 years old and single,
earns $24,000 in 2013. His IRA contributions for 2013 are
limited to $5,500.
Danny, an unmarried college student working part time,
earns $3,500 in 2013. His IRA contributions for 2013 are
limited to $3,500, the amount of his compensation.
More than one IRA. If you have more than one IRA, the
limit applies to the total contributions made on your behalf
to all your traditional IRAs for the year.
Annuity or endowment contracts. If you invest in an
annuity or endowment contract under an individual retirement annuity, no more than $5,500 ($6,500 if you are age
50 or older) can be contributed toward its cost for the tax
year, including the cost of life insurance coverage. If more
than this amount is contributed, the annuity or endowment
contract is disqualified.

Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA
Limit
For 2013, if you file a joint return and your taxable compensation is less than that of your spouse, the most that
can be contributed for the year to your IRA is the smaller
of the following two amounts:
1. $5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older), or

maximum contribution to a traditional IRA. In her case,
$5,500 is her contribution limit, because $5,500 is less
than $24,500 (her compensation for purposes of figuring
her contribution limit).

Filing Status
Generally, except as discussed earlier under Kay Bailey
Hutchison Spousal IRA Limit, your filing status has no effect on the amount of allowable contributions to your traditional IRA. However, if during the year either you or your
spouse was covered by a retirement plan at work, your
deduction may be reduced or eliminated, depending on
your filing status and income. See How Much Can You
Deduct, later.
Example. Tom and Darcy are married and both are
53. They both work and each has a traditional IRA. Tom
earned $3,800 and Darcy earned $48,000 in 2013. Because of the Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA limit rule,
even though Tom earned less than $6,500, they can contribute up to $6,500 to his IRA for 2013 if they file a joint
return. They can contribute up to $6,500 to Darcy's IRA. If
they file separate returns, the amount that can be contributed to Tom's IRA is limited by his earned income, $3,800.

Less Than Maximum Contributions
If contributions to your traditional IRA for a year were less
than the limit, you cannot contribute more after the due
date of your return for that year to make up the difference.

a. Your spouse's IRA contribution for the year to a
traditional IRA.

Example. Rafael, who is 40, earns $30,000 in 2013.
Although he can contribute up to $5,500 for 2013, he contributes only $3,000. After April 15, 2014, Rafael cannot
make up the difference between his actual contributions
for 2013 ($3,000) and his 2013 limit ($5,500). He cannot
contribute $2,500 more than the limit for any later year.

b. Any contributions for the year to a Roth IRA on behalf of your spouse.

More Than Maximum Contributions

2. The total compensation includible in the gross income
of both you and your spouse for the year, reduced by
the following two amounts.

This means that the total combined contributions that
can be made for the year to your IRA and your spouse's
IRA can be as much as $11,000 ($12,000 if only one of
you is age 50 or older or $13,000 if both of you are age 50
or older).
Note. This traditional IRA limit is reduced by any contributions to a section 501(c)(18) plan (generally, a pension plan created before June 25, 1959, that is funded entirely by employee contributions).
Example. Kristin, a full-time student with no taxable
compensation, marries Carl during the year. Neither of
them was age 50 by the end of 2013. For the year, Carl
has taxable compensation of $30,000. He plans to contribute (and deduct) $5,500 to a traditional IRA. If he and
Kristin file a joint return, each can contribute $5,500 to a
traditional IRA. This is because Kristin, who has no compensation, can add Carl's compensation, reduced by the
amount of his IRA contribution ($30,000 − $5,500 =
$24,500), to her own compensation (-0-) to figure her

If contributions to your IRA for a year were more than the
limit, you can apply the excess contribution in one year to
a later year if the contributions for that later year are less
than the maximum allowed for that year. However, a penalty or additional tax may apply. See Excess Contributions, later, under What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional Taxes.

When Can Contributions
Be Made?
As soon as you open your traditional IRA, contributions
can be made to it through your chosen sponsor (trustee or
other administrator). Contributions must be in the form of
money (cash, check, or money order). Property cannot be
contributed.

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 11

Although property cannot be contributed, your IRA may
invest in certain property. For example, your IRA may purchase shares of stock. For other restrictions on the use of
funds in your IRA, see Prohibited Transactions, later in
this chapter. You may be able to transfer or roll over certain property from one retirement plan to another. See the
discussion of rollovers and other transfers later in this
chapter under Can You Move Retirement Plan Assets.
You can make a contribution to your IRA by havTIP ing your income tax refund (or a portion of your
refund), if any, paid directly to your traditional
IRA, Roth IRA, or SEP IRA. For details, see the instructions for your income tax return or Form 8888, Allocation
of Refund (Including Savings Bond Purchases).
Contributions can be made to your traditional IRA for
each year that you receive compensation and have not
reached age 701 2. For any year in which you do not work,
contributions cannot be made to your IRA unless you receive alimony, nontaxable combat pay, military differential
pay, or file a joint return with a spouse who has compensation. See Who Can Open a Traditional IRA, earlier.
Even if contributions cannot be made for the current year,
the amounts contributed for years in which you did qualify
can remain in your IRA. Contributions can resume for any
years that you qualify.
Contributions must be made by due date. Contributions can be made to your traditional IRA for a year at any
time during the year or by the due date for filing your return for that year, not including extensions. For most people, this means that contributions for 2013 must be made
by April 15, 2014, and contributions for 2014 must be
made by April 15, 2015.
Age 701 2 rule. Contributions cannot be made to your traditional IRA for the year in which you reach age 701 2 or for
any later year.
You attain age 701 2 on the date that is 6 calendar
months after the 70th anniversary of your birth. If you were
born on or before June 30, 1943, you cannot contribute for
2013 or any later year.
Designating year for which contribution is made. If
an amount is contributed to your traditional IRA between
January 1 and April 15, you should tell the sponsor which
year (the current year or the previous year) the contribution is for. If you do not tell the sponsor which year it is for,
the sponsor can assume, and report to the IRS, that the
contribution is for the current year (the year the sponsor
received it).
Filing before a contribution is made. You can file your
return claiming a traditional IRA contribution before the
contribution is actually made. Generally, the contribution
must be made by the due date of your return, not including
extensions.
Contributions not required. You do not have to contribute to your traditional IRA for every tax year, even if you
can.
Page 12

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

How Much Can You Deduct?
Generally, you can deduct the lesser of:
The contributions to your traditional IRA for the year,
or
The general limit (or the Kay Bailey Hutchison
Spousal IRA limit, if applicable) explained earlier under How Much Can Be Contributed.
However, if you or your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan, you may not be able to deduct this
amount. See Limit if Covered by Employer Plan, later.

TIP

You may be able to claim a credit for contributions to your traditional IRA. For more information, see chapter 4.

Trustees' fees. Trustees' administrative fees that are billed separately and paid in connection with your traditional
IRA are not deductible as IRA contributions. However,
they may be deductible as a miscellaneous itemized deduction on Schedule A (Form 1040). For information
about miscellaneous itemized deductions, see Publication
529, Miscellaneous Deductions.
Brokers' commissions. These commissions are part of
your IRA contribution and, as such, are deductible subject
to the limits.
Full deduction. If neither you nor your spouse was covered for any part of the year by an employer retirement
plan, you can take a deduction for total contributions to
one or more of your traditional IRAs of up to the lesser of:
$5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older), or
100% of your compensation.
This limit is reduced by any contributions made to a
501(c)(18) plan on your behalf.
Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA. In the case of a
married couple with unequal compensation who file a joint
return, the deduction for contributions to the traditional
IRA of the spouse with less compensation is limited to the
lesser of:
1. $5,500 ($6,500 if the spouse with the lower compensation is age 50 or older), or
2. The total compensation includible in the gross income
of both spouses for the year reduced by the following
three amounts.
a. The IRA deduction for the year of the spouse with
the greater compensation.
b. Any designated nondeductible contribution for the
year made on behalf of the spouse with the
greater compensation.
c. Any contributions for the year to a Roth IRA on behalf of the spouse with the greater compensation.

This limit is reduced by any contributions to a section
501(c)(18) plan on behalf of the spouse with the lesser
compensation.
Note. If you were divorced or legally separated (and
did not remarry) before the end of the year, you cannot
deduct any contributions to your spouse's IRA. After a divorce or legal separation, you can deduct only the contributions to your own IRA. Your deductions are subject to
the rules for single individuals.
Covered by an employer retirement plan. If you or
your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan
at any time during the year for which contributions were
made, your deduction may be further limited. This is discussed later under Limit if Covered by Employer Plan.
Limits on the amount you can deduct do not affect the
amount that can be contributed.

Are You Covered
by an Employer Plan?
The Form W-2 you receive from your employer has a box
used to indicate whether you were covered for the year.
The “Retirement Plan” box should be checked if you were
covered.

profit-sharing plans, stock bonus plans, and money
purchase pension plans.
Example. Company A has a money purchase pension
plan. Its plan year is from July 1 to June 30. The plan provides that contributions must be allocated as of June 30.
Bob, an employee, leaves Company A on December 31,
2012. The contribution for the plan year ending on June
30, 2013, is made February 15, 2014. Because an amount
is contributed to Bob's account for the plan year, Bob is
covered by the plan for his 2013 tax year.
A special rule applies to certain plans in which it is not
possible to determine if an amount will be contributed to
your account for a given plan year. If, for a plan year, no
amounts have been allocated to your account that are attributable to employer contributions, employee contributions, or forfeitures, by the last day of the plan year, and
contributions are discretionary for the plan year, you are
not covered for the tax year in which the plan year ends. If,
after the plan year ends, the employer makes a contribution for that plan year, you are covered for the tax year in
which the contribution is made.

Special rules apply to determine the tax years for which
you are covered by an employer plan. These rules differ
depending on whether the plan is a defined contribution
plan or a defined benefit plan.

Example. Mickey was covered by a profit-sharing plan
and left the company on December 31, 2012. The plan
year runs from July 1 to June 30. Under the terms of the
plan, employer contributions do not have to be made, but
if they are made, they are contributed to the plan before
the due date for filing the company's tax return. Such contributions are allocated as of the last day of the plan year,
and allocations are made to the accounts of individuals
who have any service during the plan year. As of June 30,
2013, no contributions were made that were allocated to
the June 30, 2013, plan year, and no forfeitures had been
allocated within the plan year. In addition, as of that date,
the company was not obligated to make a contribution for
such plan year and it was impossible to determine
whether or not a contribution would be made for the plan
year. On December 31, 2013, the company decided to
contribute to the plan for the plan year ending June 30,
2013. That contribution was made on February 15, 2014.
Mickey is an active participant in the plan for his 2014 tax
year but not for his 2013 tax year.

Tax year. Your tax year is the annual accounting period
you use to keep records and report income and expenses
on your income tax return. For almost all people, the tax
year is the calendar year.

No vested interest. If an amount is allocated to your
account for a plan year, you are covered by that plan even
if you have no vested interest in (legal right to) the account.

Defined contribution plan. Generally, you are covered
by a defined contribution plan for a tax year if amounts are
contributed or allocated to your account for the plan year
that ends with or within that tax year. However, also see
Situations in Which You Are Not Covered, later.
A defined contribution plan is a plan that provides for a
separate account for each person covered by the plan. In
a defined contribution plan, the amount to be contributed
to each participant's account is spelled out in the plan.
The level of benefits actually provided to a participant depends on the total amount contributed to that participant's
account and any earnings and losses on those contributions. Types of defined contribution plans include

Defined benefit plan. If you are eligible to participate in
your employer's defined benefit plan for the plan year that
ends within your tax year, you are covered by the plan.
This rule applies even if you:

Reservists and volunteer firefighters should also see
Situations in Which You Are Not Covered, later.
If you are not certain whether you were covered by your
employer's retirement plan, you should ask your employer.
Federal judges. For purposes of the IRA deduction, federal judges are covered by an employer plan.

For Which Year(s) Are You Covered?

Declined to participate in the plan,
Did not make a required contribution, or
Did not perform the minimum service required to accrue a benefit for the year.
A defined benefit plan is any plan that is not a defined
contribution plan. In a defined benefit plan, the level of
benefits to be provided to each participant is spelled out in
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 13

the plan. The plan administrator figures the amount needed to provide those benefits and those amounts are contributed to the plan. Defined benefit plans include pension
plans and annuity plans.
Example. Nick, an employee of Company B, is eligible
to participate in Company B's defined benefit plan, which
has a July 1 to June 30 plan year. Nick leaves Company B
on December 31, 2012. Because Nick is eligible to participate in the plan for its year ending June 30, 2013, he is
covered by the plan for his 2013 tax year.
No vested interest. If you accrue a benefit for a plan
year, you are covered by that plan even if you have no
vested interest in (legal right to) the accrual.

Situations in Which You Are Not Covered
Unless you are covered by another employer plan, you
are not covered by an employer plan if you are in one of
the situations described below.
Social security or railroad retirement. Coverage under
social security or railroad retirement is not coverage under
an employer retirement plan.
Benefits from previous employer's plan. If you receive
retirement benefits from a previous employer's plan, you
are not covered by that plan.
Reservists. If the only reason you participate in a plan is
because you are a member of a reserve unit of the Armed
Forces, you may not be covered by the plan. You are not
covered by the plan if both of the following conditions are
met.
1. The plan you participate in is established for its employees by:
a. The United States,
b. A state or political subdivision of a state, or
c. An instrumentality of either (a) or (b) above.
2. You did not serve more than 90 days on active duty
during the year (not counting duty for training).
Volunteer firefighters. If the only reason you participate
in a plan is because you are a volunteer firefighter, you
may not be covered by the plan. You are not covered by
the plan if both of the following conditions are met.
1. The plan you participate in is established for its employees by:
a. The United States,
b. A state or political subdivision of a state, or
c. An instrumentality of either (a) or (b) above.
2. Your accrued retirement benefits at the beginning of
the year will not provide more than $1,800 per year at
retirement.

Limit if Covered by Employer Plan
As discussed earlier, the deduction you can take for contributions made to your traditional IRA depends on
whether you or your spouse was covered for any part of
the year by an employer retirement plan. Your deduction
is also affected by how much income you had and by your
filing status. Your deduction may also be affected by social security benefits you received.
Reduced or no deduction. If either you or your spouse
was covered by an employer retirement plan, you may be
entitled to only a partial (reduced) deduction or no deduction at all, depending on your income and your filing status.
Your deduction begins to decrease (phase out) when
your income rises above a certain amount and is eliminated altogether when it reaches a higher amount. These
amounts vary depending on your filing status.
To determine if your deduction is subject to the phaseout, you must determine your modified adjusted gross income (AGI) and your filing status, as explained later under
Deduction Phaseout. Once you have determined your
modified AGI and your filing status, you can use Table 1-2
or Table 1-3 to determine if the phaseout applies.

Social Security Recipients
Instead of using Table 1-2 or Table 1-3 and Worksheet
1-2, Figuring Your Reduced IRA Deduction for 2013, later,
complete the worksheets in Appendix B of this publication
if, for the year, all of the following apply.
You received social security benefits.
You received taxable compensation.
Contributions were made to your traditional IRA.
You or your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan.
Use the worksheets in Appendix B to figure your IRA deduction, your nondeductible contribution, and the taxable
portion, if any, of your social security benefits. Appendix B
includes an example with filled-in worksheets to assist
you.
For 2014, if you are not covered by a retirement
plan
at work and you are married filing jointly with
TIP
a spouse who is covered by a plan at work, your
deduction is phased out if your modified AGI is more than
$181,000 but less than $191,000. If your AGI is $191,000
or more, you cannot take a deduction for a contribution to
a traditional IRA.

Deduction Phaseout
The amount of any reduction in the limit on your IRA deduction (phaseout) depends on whether you or your
spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan.
Covered by a retirement plan. If you are covered by an
employer retirement plan and you did not receive any

Page 14

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Table 1-2. Effect of Modified AGI1 on Deduction if You Are Covered by a Retirement Plan at
Work
If you are covered by a retirement plan at work, use this table to determine if your modified AGI affects the amount of
your deduction.
IF your filing
status is ...

AND your modified adjusted gross income
(modified AGI)
is ...

single or
head of household

married filing jointly or
qualifying widow(er)

married filing separately2

THEN you can take ...

$59,000 or less

a full deduction.

more than $59,000
but less than $69,000

a partial deduction.

$69,000 or more

no deduction.

$95,000 or less

a full deduction.

more than $95,000
but less than $115,000

a partial deduction.

$115,000 or more

no deduction.

less than $10,000

a partial deduction.

$10,000 or more

no deduction.

Modified AGI (adjusted gross income). See Modified adjusted gross income (AGI), later.
If you did not live with your spouse at any time during the year, your filing status is considered Single for this purpose (therefore, your IRA
deduction is determined under the “Single” filing status).

1

2

Table 1-3. Effect of Modified AGI1 on Deduction if You Are NOT Covered by a Retirement
Plan at Work
If you are not covered by a retirement plan at work, use this table to determine if your modified AGI affects the amount of
your deduction.
IF your filing
status is ...

AND your modified adjusted gross income
(modified AGI) is ...

THEN you can take ...

single,
head of household, or
qualifying widow(er)

any amount

a full deduction.

married filing jointly or separately with a
spouse who is not covered by a plan
at work

any amount

a full deduction.

$178,000 or less

a full deduction.

more than $178,000
but less than $188,000

a partial deduction.

$188,000 or more

no deduction.

less than $10,000

a partial deduction.

$10,000 or more

no deduction.

married filing jointly with a spouse who is
covered by a plan
at work
married filing separately with a spouse who is
covered by a plan
at work2
1
2

Modified AGI (adjusted gross income). See Modified adjusted gross income (AGI), later.
You are entitled to the full deduction if you did not live with your spouse at any time during the year.

social security retirement benefits, your IRA deduction
may be reduced or eliminated depending on your filing
status and modified AGI, as shown in Table 1-2.

More than $96,000 but less than $116,000 for a married couple filing a joint return (or a qualifying
widow(er)), or

For 2014, if you are covered by a retirement plan
at work, your IRA deduction will not be reduced
(phased out) unless your modified AGI is:

Less than $10,000 for a married individual filing a separate return.

TIP

More than $60,000 but less than $70,000 for a single
individual (or head of household),

If your spouse is covered. If you are not covered by an
employer retirement plan, but your spouse is, and you did
not receive any social security benefits, your IRA
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 15

deduction may be reduced or eliminated entirely depending on your filing status and modified AGI as shown in Table 1-3.

Form 1040NR. If you file Form 1040NR, refigure the
amount on the page 1 “adjusted gross income” line
without taking into account any of the following amounts.

Filing status. Your filing status depends primarily on
your marital status. For this purpose, you need to know if
your filing status is single or head of household, married
filing jointly or qualifying widow(er), or married filing separately. If you need more information on filing status, see
Publication 501, Exemptions, Standard Deduction, and
Filing Information.

IRA deduction.

Lived apart from spouse. If you did not live with your
spouse at any time during the year and you file a separate
return, your filing status, for this purpose, is single.

Exclusion of employer-provided adoption benefits
shown on Form 8839.
This is your modified AGI.

Modified adjusted gross income (AGI). You can use
Worksheet 1-1 to figure your modified AGI. If you made
contributions to your IRA for 2013 and received a distribution from your IRA in 2013, see Both contributions for
2013 and distributions in 2013, later.

Income from IRA distributions. If you received distributions in 2013 from one or more traditional IRAs and
your traditional IRAs include only deductible contributions,
the distributions are fully taxable and are included in your
modified AGI.

Do not assume that your modified AGI is the
same as your compensation. Your modified AGI
CAUTION
may include income in addition to your compensation (discussed earlier) such as interest, dividends, and
income from IRA distributions.

Both contributions for 2013 and distributions in
2013. If all three of the following apply, any IRA distributions you received in 2013 may be partly tax free and
partly taxable.

!

Form 1040. If you file Form 1040, refigure the amount
on the page 1 “adjusted gross income” line without taking
into account any of the following amounts.
IRA deduction.
Student loan interest deduction.
Tuition and fees deduction.
Domestic production activities deduction.
Foreign earned income exclusion.
Foreign housing exclusion or deduction.
Exclusion of qualified savings bond interest shown on
Form 8815.
Exclusion of employer-provided adoption benefits
shown on Form 8839.
This is your modified AGI.
Form 1040A. If you file Form 1040A, refigure the
amount on the page 1 “adjusted gross income” line without taking into account any of the following amounts.
IRA deduction.
Student loan interest deduction.
Tuition and fees deduction.
Exclusion of qualified savings bond interest shown on
Form 8815.
This is your modified AGI.

Page 16

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Student loan interest deduction.
Domestic production activities deduction.
Exclusion of qualified savings bond interest shown on
Form 8815.

You received distributions in 2013 from one or more
traditional IRAs,
You made contributions to a traditional IRA for 2013,
and
Some of those contributions may be nondeductible
contributions. (See Nondeductible Contributions and
Worksheet 1-2, later.)
If this is your situation, you must figure the taxable part of
the traditional IRA distribution before you can figure your
modified AGI. To do this, you can use Worksheet 1-5,
later.
If at least one of the above does not apply, figure your
modified AGI using Worksheet 1-1, later.

How To Figure Your Reduced IRA Deduction
If you or your spouse is covered by an employer retirement plan and you did not receive any social security benefits, you can figure your reduced IRA deduction by using
Worksheet 1-2. Figuring Your Reduced IRA Deduction for
2013. The Instructions for Form 1040, Form 1040A, and
Form 1040NR include similar worksheets that you can use
instead of the worksheet in this publication.
If you or your spouse is covered by an employer retirement plan, and you received any social security benefits,
see Social Security Recipients, earlier.
Note. If you were married and both you and your
spouse contributed to IRAs, figure your deduction and
your spouse's deduction separately.

Worksheet 1-1. Figuring Your Modified AGI

Keep for Your Records

Use this worksheet to figure your modified AGI for traditional IRA purposes.
1.

Enter your adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040, line 38; Form 1040A, line 22; or Form
1040NR, line 37, figured without taking into account the amount from Form 1040, line 32; Form
1040A, line 17; or Form 1040NR, line 32 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2.

Enter any student loan interest deduction from Form 1040, line 33; Form 1040A, line 18; or
Form 1040NR, line 33 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3.

Enter any tuition and fees deduction from Form 1040, line 34, or Form 1040A, line 19 . . . . . . . .

3.

4.

Enter any domestic production activities deduction from Form 1040, line 35, or Form 1040NR,
line 34 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5.

Enter any foreign earned income exclusion and/or housing exclusion from Form 2555, line 45,
or Form 2555-EZ, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6.

Enter any foreign housing deduction from Form 2555, line 50

...........................

6.

7.

Enter any excludable savings bond interest from Form 8815, line 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

8.

Enter any excluded employer-provided adoption benefits from Form 8839, line 28

..........

8.

9.

Add lines 1 through 8. This is your Modified AGI for traditional IRA purposes . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

Reporting Deductible Contributions
If you file Form 1040, enter your IRA deduction on line 32
of that form. If you file Form 1040A, enter your IRA deduction on line 17 of that form. If you file Form 1040NR, enter
your IRA deduction on line 32 of that form. You cannot deduct IRA contributions on Form 1040EZ or Form
1040NR-EZ.
Self­employed. If you are self-employed (a sole proprietor or partner) and have a SIMPLE IRA, enter your deduction for allowable plan contributions on Form 1040,
line 28. If you file Form 1040NR, enter your deduction on
line 28 of that form.

Nondeductible Contributions
Although your deduction for IRA contributions may be reduced or eliminated, contributions can be made to your
IRA of up to the general limit or, if it applies, the Kay Bailey
Hutchison Spousal IRA limit. The difference between your
total permitted contributions and your IRA deduction, if
any, is your nondeductible contribution.
Example. Tony is 29 years old and single. In 2013, he
was covered by a retirement plan at work. His salary is
$62,000. His modified AGI is $70,000. Tony makes a
$5,500 IRA contribution for 2013. Because he was covered by a retirement plan and his modified AGI is above
$69,000, he cannot deduct his $5,500 IRA contribution.
He must designate this contribution as a nondeductible
contribution by reporting it on Form 8606.
Repayment of reservist distributions. Nondeductible
contributions may include repayments of qualified reservist distributions. For more information, see Qualified reservist repayments under How Much Can Be Contributed,
earlier.

Form 8606. To designate contributions as nondeductible, you must file Form 8606. (See the filled-in Forms
8606 in this chapter.)
You do not have to designate a contribution as nondeductible until you file your tax return. When you file, you
can even designate otherwise deductible contributions as
nondeductible contributions.
You must file Form 8606 to report nondeductible contributions even if you do not have to file a tax return for the
year.
A Form 8606 is not used for the year that you
make a rollover from a qualified retirement plan to
CAUTION
a traditional IRA and the rollover includes nontaxable amounts. In those situations, a Form 8606 is completed for the year you take a distribution from that IRA. See
Form 8606 under Distributions Fully or Partly Taxable,
later.

!

Failure to report nondeductible contributions. If you
do not report nondeductible contributions, all of the contributions to your traditional IRA will be treated like deductible contributions when withdrawn. All distributions from
your IRA will be taxed unless you can show, with satisfactory evidence, that nondeductible contributions were
made.
Penalty for overstatement. If you overstate the amount
of nondeductible contributions on your Form 8606 for any
tax year, you must pay a penalty of $100 for each overstatement, unless it was due to reasonable cause.
Penalty for failure to file Form 8606. You will have to
pay a $50 penalty if you do not file a required Form 8606,
unless you can prove that the failure was due to reasonable cause.
Tax on earnings on nondeductible contributions. As
long as contributions are within the contribution limits,
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 17

none of the earnings or gains on contributions (deductible
or nondeductible) will be taxed until they are distributed.
Cost basis. You will have a cost basis in your traditional
IRA if you made any nondeductible contributions. Your
cost basis is the sum of the nondeductible contributions to
your IRA minus any withdrawals or distributions of nondeductible contributions.
Commonly, distributions from your traditional
IRAs will include both taxable and nontaxable
CAUTION
(cost basis) amounts. See Are Distributions Taxable, later, for more information.

!

Recordkeeping. There is a recordkeeping worksheet, Appendix A. Summary Record of TradiRECORDS tional IRA(s) for 2013, that you can use to keep a
record of deductible and nondeductible IRA contributions.

Examples — Worksheet for
Reduced IRA Deduction for 2013

within the phaseout range that applies. Betty decides to
treat her $5,500 IRA contributions as deductible.
The IRA deductions of $5,080 and $5,500 on the joint
return for Tom and Betty total $10,580.
Example 2. For 2013, Ed and Sue file a joint return on
Form 1040. They are both 39 years old. Ed is covered by
his employer's retirement plan. Ed's salary is $45,000.
Sue had no compensation for the year and did not contribute to an IRA. Sue is not covered by an employer plan. Ed
contributed $5,500 to his traditional IRA and $5,500 to a
traditional IRA for Sue (a Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal
IRA). Their combined modified AGI, which includes
$2,000 interest and dividend income and a large capital
gain from the sale of stock, is $180,555.
Because the combined modified AGI is $115,000 or
more, Ed cannot deduct any of the contribution to his traditional IRA. He can either leave the $5,500 of nondeductible contributions in his IRA or withdraw them by April 15,
2014.
Sue figures her IRA deduction as shown on Worksheet
1-2. Figuring Your Reduced IRA Deduction for 2013—Example 2 Illustrated.

The following examples illustrate the use of Worksheet
1-2, Figuring Your Reduced IRA Deduction for 2013.
Example 1. For 2013, Tom and Betty file a joint return
on Form 1040. They are both 39 years old. They are both
employed and Tom is covered by his employer's retirement plan. Tom's salary is $59,000 and Betty's is $32,555.
They each have a traditional IRA and their combined
modified AGI, which includes $5,000 interest and dividend
income, is $96,555. Because their modified AGI is between $95,000 and $115,000 and Tom is covered by an
employer plan, Tom is subject to the deduction phaseout
discussed earlier under Limit if Covered by Employer
Plan.
For 2013, Tom contributed $5,500 to his IRA and Betty
contributed $5,500 to hers. Even though they file a joint
return, they must use separate worksheets to figure the
IRA deduction for each of them.
Tom can take a deduction of only $5,080.
He can choose to treat the $5,080 as either deductible
or nondeductible contributions. He can either leave the
$420 ($5,500 − $5,080) of nondeductible contributions in
his IRA or withdraw them by April 15, 2014. He decides to
treat the $5,080 as deductible contributions and leave the
$420 of nondeductible contributions in his IRA.
Using Worksheet 1-2, Figuring Your Reduced IRA Deduction for 2013, Tom figures his deductible and nondeductible amounts as shown on Worksheet 1-2. Figuring
Your Reduced IRA Deduction for 2013—Example 1 Illustrated.
Betty figures her IRA deduction as follows. Betty can
treat all or part of her contributions as either deductible or
nondeductible. This is because her $5,500 contribution for
2013 is not subject to the deduction phaseout discussed
earlier under Limit if Covered by Employer Plan. She does
not need to use Worksheet 1-2, Figuring Your Reduced
IRA Deduction for 2013, because their modified AGI is not
Page 18

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

What if You Inherit an IRA?
If you inherit a traditional IRA, you are called a beneficiary.
A beneficiary can be any person or entity the owner chooses to receive the benefits of the IRA after he or she dies.
Beneficiaries of a traditional IRA must include in their
gross income any taxable distributions they receive.
Inherited from spouse. If you inherit a traditional IRA
from your spouse, you generally have the following three
choices. You can:
1. Treat it as your own IRA by designating yourself as
the account owner.
2. Treat it as your own by rolling it over into your IRA, or
to the extent it is taxable, into a:
a. Qualified employer plan,
b. Qualified employee annuity plan (section 403(a)
plan),
c. Tax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan),
d. Deferred compensation plan of a state or local
government (section 457 plan), or
3. Treat yourself as the beneficiary rather than treating
the IRA as your own.
Treating it as your own. You will be considered to
have chosen to treat the IRA as your own if:
Contributions (including rollover contributions) are
made to the inherited IRA, or
You do not take the required minimum distribution for
a year as a beneficiary of the IRA.

Worksheet 1-2. Figuring Your Reduced IRA
Deduction for 2013

Keep for Your Records

(Use only if you or your spouse is covered by an employer plan and your modified AGI falls between the two amounts
shown below for your coverage situation and filing status.)

.

Note. If you were married and both you and your spouse contributed to IRAs, figure your deduction and your spouse's
deduction separately.

IF you ...
are covered by an
employer plan

AND your
filing status is ...

AND your
modified AGI THEN enter on
is over ...
line 1 below ...

single or head of
household

$59,000

$69,000

married filing jointly or
qualifying widow(er)

$95,000

$115,000

married filing separately

$0

$10,000

$178,000

$188,000

$0

$10,000

are not covered by an
married filing jointly
employer plan, but
your spouse is covered married filing separately

1. Enter applicable amount from table above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2. Enter your modified AGI (that of both spouses, if married filing jointly)

2.

..................

Note. If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here.
Your IRA contributions are not deductible. See Nondeductible Contributions, earlier.
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1. If line 3 is $10,000 or more ($20,000 or more if married filing
jointly or qualifying widow(er) and you are covered by an employer plan), stop here.
You can take a full IRA deduction for contributions of up to $5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50
or older) or 100% of your (and if married filing jointly, your spouse's) compensation,
whichever is less . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4. Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result is not a
multiple of $10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example, $611.40 is
rounded to $620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter $200.
Married filing jointly or qualifying widow(er) and you are covered by an employer
plan, multiply line 3 by 27.5% (.275) (by 32.5% (.325) if you are age 50 or older).
All others, multiply line 3 by 55% (.55) (by 65% (.65) if you are age 50 or older).

. . . . .4.

5. Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Form 1040 or Form 1040NR, line 27
(deductible part of self-employment tax) and line 28 (self-employed SEP, SIMPLE, and
qualified plans). If you are filing a joint return and your compensation is less than your
spouse's, include your spouse's compensation reduced by his or her traditional IRA and
Roth IRA contributions for this year. If you file Form 1040 or Form 1040NR, do not reduce
your compensation by any losses from self-employment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6. Enter contributions made, or to be made, to your IRA for 2013, but do not enter more than
$5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older). If contributions are more than $5,500 ($6,500 if
you are age 50 or older), see Excess Contributions, later. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

7. IRA deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount (or a smaller amount if
you choose) here and on the Form 1040, 1040A, or 1040NR line for your IRA, whichever
applies. If line 6 is more than line 7 and you want to make a nondeductible contribution, go to
line 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
8. Nondeductible contribution. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or 6, whichever is smaller.
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Chapter 1

8.

Traditional IRAs

Page 19

Worksheet 1-2. Figuring Your Reduced IRA Deduction for 2013—Example 1 Illustrated
(Use only if you or your spouse is covered by an employer plan and your modified AGI falls between the two amounts
shown below for your coverage situation and filing status.)

.

Note. If you were married and both you and your spouse contributed to IRAs, figure your deduction and your spouse's
deduction separately.

AND your
filing status is ...

IF you ...
are covered by an
employer plan

are not covered by
an employer plan, but
your spouse is
covered

AND your
modified
AGI
is over ...

THEN enter on
line 1 below ...

single or head of
household

$59,000

$69,000

married filing jointly or
qualifying widow(er)

$95,000

$115,000

married filing
separately

$0

$10,000

married filing jointly

$178,000

$188,000

married filing
separately

$0

$10,000

1. Enter applicable amount from table above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.

115,000

2. Enter your modified AGI (that of both spouses, if married filing jointly) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.

96,555

Note. If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here.
Your IRA contributions are not deductible. See Nondeductible Contributions, earlier.
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1. If line 3 is $10,000 or more ($20,000 or more if married
filing jointly or qualifying widow(er) and you are covered by an employer plan),
stop here. You can take a full IRA deduction for contributions of up to $5,500 ($6,500 if
you are age 50 or older) or 100% of your (and if married filing jointly, your spouse's)
compensation, whichever is less . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.

18,445

4. Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result is not a
multiple of $10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example,
$611.40 is rounded to $620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter
$200.
Married filing jointly or qualifying widow(er) and you are covered by an
employer plan, multiply line 3 by 27.5% (.275) (by 32.5% (.325) if you are
age 50 or older).
All others, multiply line 3 by 55% (.55) (by 65% (.65) if you are age 50 or
older).

. . . . .4.

5,080

5. Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Form 1040 or Form 1040NR, line 27
(deductible part of self-employment tax) and line 28 (self-employed SEP, SIMPLE, and
qualified plans). If you are filing a joint return and your compensation is less than your
spouse's, include your spouse's compensation reduced by his or her traditional IRA and
Roth IRA contributions for this year. If you file Form 1040 or Form 1040NR, do not
reduce your compensation by any losses from self-employment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.

59,000

6. Enter contributions made, or to be made, to your IRA for 2013, but do not enter more
than $5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older). If contributions are more than $5,500
($6,500 if you are age 50 or older), see Excess Contributions, later. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.

5,500

7. IRA deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount (or a smaller
amount if you choose) here and on the Form 1040, 1040A, or 1040NR line for your IRA,
whichever applies. If line 6 is more than line 7 and you want to make a nondeductible
contribution, go to line 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

5,080

8. Nondeductible contribution. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or 6, whichever is smaller.
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.

420

Page 20

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Worksheet 1-2. Figuring Your Reduced IRA Deduction for 2013—Example 2 Illustrated
(Use only if you or your spouse is covered by an employer plan and your modified AGI falls between the two amounts
shown below for your coverage situation and filing status.)

.

Note. If you were married and both you and your spouse contributed to IRAs, figure your deduction and your spouse's
deduction separately.

IF you ...
are covered by an
employer plan

are not covered by
an employer plan, but
your spouse is
covered

AND your
filing status is ...

AND your
modified
AGI
is over ...

THEN enter on
line 1 below ...

single or head of
household

$59,000

$69,000

married filing jointly or
qualifying widow(er)

$95,000

$115,000

married filing
separately

$0

$10,000

married filing jointly

$178,000

$188,000

married filing
separately

$0

$10,000

1. Enter applicable amount from table above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.

188,000

2. Enter your modified AGI (that of both spouses, if married filing jointly) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.

180,555

Note. If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here.
Your IRA contributions are not deductible. See Nondeductible Contributions, earlier.
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1. If line 3 is $10,000 or more ($20,000 or more if married
filing jointly or qualifying widow(er) and you are covered by an employer plan),
stop here. You can take a full IRA deduction for contributions of up to $5,500 ($6,500 if
you are age 50 or older) or 100% of your (and if married filing jointly, your spouse's)
compensation, whichever is less . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.

7,445

4. Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result is not a
multiple of $10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example,
$611.40 is rounded to $620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter
$200.
Married filing jointly or qualifying widow(er) and you are covered by an
employer plan, multiply line 3 by 27.5% (.275) (by 32.5% (.325) if you are
age 50 or older).
All others, multiply line 3 by 55% (.55) (by 65% (.65) if you are age 50 or
older).

. . . . .4.

4,100

5. Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Form 1040 or Form 1040NR, line 27
(deductible part of self-employment tax) and line 28 (self-employed SEP, SIMPLE, and
qualified plans). If you are filing a joint return and your compensation is less than your
spouse's, include your spouse's compensation reduced by his or her traditional IRA and
Roth IRA contributions for this year. If you file Form 1040 or Form 1040NR, do not
reduce your compensation by any losses from self-employment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.

39,500

6. Enter contributions made, or to be made, to your IRA for 2013, but do not enter more
than $5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older). If contributions are more than $5,500
($6,500 if you are age 50 or older), see Excess Contributions, later. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.

5,500

7. IRA deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount (or a smaller
amount if you choose) here and on the Form 1040, 1040A, or 1040NR line for your IRA,
whichever applies. If line 6 is more than line 7 and you want to make a nondeductible
contribution, go to line 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

4,100

8. Nondeductible contribution. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or 6, whichever is smaller.
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.

1,400

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 21

You will only be considered to have chosen to treat the
IRA as your own if:
You are the sole beneficiary of the IRA, and
You have an unlimited right to withdraw amounts from
it.
However, if you receive a distribution from your deceased spouse's IRA, you can roll that distribution over
into your own IRA within the 60-day time limit, as long as
the distribution is not a required distribution, even if you
are not the sole beneficiary of your deceased spouse's
IRA. For more information, see When Must You Withdraw
Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions), later.
Inherited from someone other than spouse. If you inherit a traditional IRA from anyone other than your deceased spouse, you cannot treat the inherited IRA as your
own. This means that you cannot make any contributions
to the IRA. It also means you cannot roll over any amounts
into or out of the inherited IRA. However, you can make a
trustee-to-trustee transfer as long as the IRA into which
amounts are being moved is set up and maintained in the
name of the deceased IRA owner for the benefit of you as
beneficiary.
Like the original owner, you generally will not owe tax
on the assets in the IRA until you receive distributions
from it. You must begin receiving distributions from the
IRA under the rules for distributions that apply to beneficiaries.
IRA with basis. If you inherit a traditional IRA from a person who had a basis in the IRA because of nondeductible
contributions, that basis remains with the IRA. Unless you
are the decedent's spouse and choose to treat the IRA as
your own, you cannot combine this basis with any basis
you have in your own traditional IRA(s) or any basis in traditional IRA(s) you inherited from other decedents. If you
take distributions from both an inherited IRA and your IRA,
and each has basis, you must complete separate Forms
8606 to determine the taxable and nontaxable portions of
those distributions.
Federal estate tax deduction. A beneficiary may be
able to claim a deduction for estate tax resulting from certain distributions from a traditional IRA. The beneficiary
can deduct the estate tax paid on any part of a distribution
that is income in respect of a decedent. He or she can
take the deduction for the tax year the income is reported.
For information on claiming this deduction, see Estate Tax
Deduction under Other Tax Information in Publication 559,
Survivors, Executors, and Administrators.
Any taxable part of a distribution that is not income in
respect of a decedent is a payment the beneficiary must
include in income. However, the beneficiary cannot take
any estate tax deduction for this part.
A surviving spouse can roll over the distribution to another traditional IRA and avoid including it in income for
the year received.

Page 22

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

More information. For more information about rollovers,
required distributions, and inherited IRAs, see:
Rollovers, later, under Can You Move Retirement Plan
Assets,
When Must You Withdraw Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions), later, and
The discussion of IRA Beneficiaries, later, under
When Must You Withdraw Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions).

Can You Move Retirement
Plan Assets?
You can transfer, tax free, assets (money or property)
from other retirement programs (including traditional IRAs)
to a traditional IRA. You can make the following kinds of
transfers.
Transfers from one trustee to another.
Rollovers.
Transfers incident to a divorce.
This chapter discusses all three kinds of transfers.
Transfers to Roth IRAs. Under certain conditions, you
can move assets from a traditional IRA or from a designated Roth account to a Roth IRA. For more information
about these transfers, see Converting From Any Traditional IRA Into a Roth IRA, later in this chapter, and Can
You Move Amounts Into a Roth IRA? in chapter 2.
Transfers to Roth IRAs from other retirement
plans. Under certain conditions, you can move assets
from a qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA. For more
information, see Can You Move Amounts Into a Roth IRA?
in chapter 2.

Trustee­to­Trustee Transfer
A transfer of funds in your traditional IRA from one trustee
directly to another, either at your request or at the trustee's
request, is not a rollover. Because there is no distribution
to you, the transfer is tax free. Because it is not a rollover,
it is not affected by the 1-year waiting period required between rollovers. This waiting period is discussed later under Rollover From One IRA Into Another.
For information about direct transfers from retirement
programs other than traditional IRAs, see Direct rollover
option, later.

Rollovers
Generally, a rollover is a tax-free distribution to you of
cash or other assets from one retirement plan that you
contribute to another retirement plan. The contribution to
the second retirement plan is called a “rollover contribution.”

Table 1­4. Rollover Chart
The following chart indicates the rollovers that are permitted between various types of plans.
Roll To
Roth IRA

Traditional SIMPLE
IRA
IRA

SEP IRA

457(b)
Plan

Qualified
Plan1
(pre­tax)

403(b) Plan Designated
(pre­tax)
Roth
Account
(401(k),
403(b) or
457(b)2)

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Traditional Yes
IRA

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

SIMPLE
IRA

Yes3, after
2 years

Yes, after 2 Yes
years

Yes, after 2
years

Yes4, after
2 years

Yes, after 2 Yes, after 2 No
years
years

SEP IRA

Yes3

Yes

No

Yes

Yes4

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

3

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes,3, 5 after
12/31/10

Yes3

Yes

No

Yes

Yes4

Yes

Yes

Yes,3, 5 after
9/27/10

403(b) Plan Yes3
(pre­tax)

Yes

No

Yes

Yes4

Yes

Yes

Yes,3, 5 after
9/27/10

Designated Yes
Roth
Account
(401(k),
403(b) or
457(b)2)

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes, if a
direct
trustee-totrustee
transfer

Roth IRA

3

457(b) Plan
Roll
From

Qualified
Plan1
(pre­tax)

4

Qualified plans include, for example, profit-sharing, 401(k), money purchase, and defined benefit plans.
Governmental 457(b) plans, after December 31, 2010.
3
Must include in income.
4
Must have separate accounts.
5
Must be an in-plan rollover.
1

2

Note. An amount rolled over tax free from one retirement plan to another is generally includible in income
when it is distributed from the second plan.
Kinds of rollovers to a traditional IRA. You can roll
over amounts from the following plans into a traditional
IRA:
A traditional IRA,
An employer's qualified retirement plan for its employees,
A deferred compensation plan of a state or local government (section 457 plan), or
A tax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403 plan).
Also, see Table 1-4 above.
Treatment of rollovers. You cannot deduct a rollover
contribution, but you must report the rollover distribution
on your tax return as discussed later under Reporting rollovers from IRAs and Reporting rollovers from employer
plans.

Rollover notice. A written explanation of rollover
treatment must be given to you by the plan (other than an
IRA) making the distribution. See Written explanation to
recipients, later, for more details.
Kinds of rollovers from a traditional IRA. You may be
able to roll over, tax free, a distribution from your traditional IRA into a qualified plan. These plans include the
Federal Thrift Savings Fund (for federal employees), deferred compensation plans of state or local governments
(section 457 plans), and tax-sheltered annuity plans (section 403(b) plans). The part of the distribution that you can
roll over is the part that would otherwise be taxable (includible in your income). Qualified plans may, but are not
required to, accept such rollovers.
Tax treatment of a rollover from a traditional IRA
to an eligible retirement plan other than an IRA. Ordinarily, when you have basis in your IRAs, any distribution
is considered to include both nontaxable and taxable
amounts. Without a special rule, the nontaxable portion of
such a distribution could not be rolled over. However, a
special rule treats a distribution you roll over into an eligible retirement plan as including only otherwise taxable
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 23

amounts if the amount you either leave in your IRAs or do
not roll over is at least equal to your basis. The effect of
this special rule is to make the amount in your traditional
IRAs that you can roll over to an eligible retirement plan as
large as possible.
Eligible retirement plans. The following are considered eligible retirement plans.
Individual retirement arrangements (IRAs).
Qualified trusts.
Qualified employee annuity plans under section
403(a).
Deferred compensation plans of state and local governments (section 457 plans).
Tax-sheltered annuities (section 403(b) annuities).

Time Limit for Making
a Rollover Contribution
You generally must make the rollover contribution by the
60th day after the day you receive the distribution from
your traditional IRA or your employer's plan.
Example. You received an eligible rollover distribution
from your traditional IRA on June 30, 2013, that you intend
to roll over to your 403(b) plan. To postpone including the
distribution in your income, you must complete the rollover
by August 29, 2013, the 60th day following June 30.
The IRS may waive the 60-day requirement where the
failure to do so would be against equity or good conscience, such as in the event of a casualty, disaster, or
other event beyond your reasonable control. For exceptions to the 60-day period, see Automatic waiver, Other
waivers, and Extension of rollover period, later.
Rollovers completed after the 60­day period. In the
absence of a waiver, amounts not rolled over within the
60-day period do not qualify for tax-free rollover treatment.
You must treat them as a taxable distribution from either
your IRA or your employer's plan. These amounts are taxable in the year distributed, even if the 60-day period expires in the next year. You may also have to pay a 10%
additional tax on early distributions as discussed later under Early Distributions.
Unless there is a waiver or an extension of the 60-day
rollover period, any contribution you make to your IRA
more than 60 days after the distribution is a regular contribution, not a rollover contribution.
Example. You received a distribution in late December 2013 from a traditional IRA that you do not roll over
into another traditional IRA within the 60-day limit. You do
not qualify for a waiver. This distribution is taxable in 2013
even though the 60-day limit was not up until 2014.

Automatic waiver. The 60-day rollover requirement is
waived automatically only if all of the following apply.
The financial institution receives the funds on your behalf before the end of the 60-day rollover period.
You followed all the procedures set by the financial institution for depositing the funds into an eligible retirement plan within the 60-day period (including giving
instructions to deposit the funds into an eligible retirement plan).
The funds are not deposited into an eligible retirement
plan within the 60-day rollover period solely because
of an error on the part of the financial institution.
The funds are deposited into an eligible retirement
plan within 1 year from the beginning of the 60-day
rollover period.
It would have been a valid rollover if the financial institution had deposited the funds as instructed.
Other waivers. If you do not qualify for an automatic
waiver, you can apply to the IRS for a waiver of the 60-day
rollover requirement. To apply for a waiver, you must submit a request for a letter ruling under the appropriate IRS
revenue procedure. This revenue procedure is generally
published in the first Internal Revenue Bulletin of the year.
You must also pay a user fee with the application.
In determining whether to grant a waiver, the IRS will
consider all relevant facts and circumstances, including:
Whether errors were made by the financial institution
(other than those described under Automatic waiver
above),
Whether you were unable to complete the rollover due
to death, disability, hospitalization, incarceration, restrictions imposed by a foreign country, or postal error,
Whether you used the amount distributed (for example, in the case of payment by check, whether you
cashed the check), and
How much time has passed since the date of distribution.
Amount. The rules regarding the amount that can be rolled over within the 60-day time period also apply to the
amount that can be deposited due to a waiver. For example, if you received $6,000 from your IRA, the most that
you can deposit into an eligible retirement plan due to a
waiver is $6,000.
Extension of rollover period. If an amount distributed
to you from a traditional IRA or a qualified employer retirement plan is a frozen deposit at any time during the
60-day period allowed for a rollover, two special rules extend the rollover period.
The period during which the amount is a frozen deposit is not counted in the 60-day period.
The 60-day period cannot end earlier than 10 days after the deposit is no longer frozen.

Page 24

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Frozen deposit. This is any deposit that cannot be
withdrawn from a financial institution because of either of
the following reasons.
The financial institution is bankrupt or insolvent.
The state where the institution is located restricts withdrawals because one or more financial institutions in
the state are (or are about to be) bankrupt or insolvent.

Rollover From One IRA Into Another
You can withdraw, tax free, all or part of the assets from
one traditional IRA if you reinvest them within 60 days in
the same or another traditional IRA. Because this is a rollover, you cannot deduct the amount that you reinvest in
an IRA.
You may be able to treat a contribution made to
TIP one type of IRA as having been made to a different type of IRA. This is called recharacterizing the
contribution. See Recharacterizations in this chapter for
more information.
Waiting period between rollovers. Generally, if you
make a tax-free rollover of any part of a distribution from a
traditional IRA, you cannot, within a 1-year period, make a
tax-free rollover of any later distribution from that same
IRA. You also cannot make a tax-free rollover of any
amount distributed, within the same 1-year period, from
the IRA into which you made the tax-free rollover.
The 1-year period begins on the date you receive the
IRA distribution, not on the date you roll it over into an IRA.

b. The receiver is unable to find a buyer for the institution.
The same property must be rolled over. If property is
distributed to you from an IRA and you complete the rollover by contributing property to an IRA, your rollover is tax
free only if the property you contribute is the same property that was distributed to you.
Partial rollovers. If you withdraw assets from a traditional IRA, you can roll over part of the withdrawal tax free
and keep the rest of it. The amount you keep will generally
be taxable (except for the part that is a return of nondeductible contributions). The amount you keep may be subject to the 10% additional tax on early distributions discussed later under What Acts Result in Penalties or
Additional Taxes.
Required distributions. Amounts that must be distributed during a particular year under the required distribution rules (discussed later) are not eligible for rollover
treatment.
Inherited IRAs. If you inherit a traditional IRA from your
spouse, you generally can roll it over, or you can choose
to make the inherited IRA your own as discussed earlier
under What if You Inherit an IRA.
Not inherited from spouse. If you inherit a traditional
IRA from someone other than your spouse, you cannot roll
it over or allow it to receive a rollover contribution. You
must withdraw the IRA assets within a certain period. For
more information, see When Must You Withdraw Assets?
(Required Minimum Distributions), later.

Example. You have two traditional IRAs, IRA-1 and
IRA-2. You make a tax-free rollover of a distribution from
IRA-1 into a new traditional IRA (IRA-3). You cannot,
within 1 year of the distribution from IRA-1, make a
tax-free rollover of any distribution from either IRA-1 or
IRA-3 into another traditional IRA.
However, the rollover from IRA-1 into IRA-3 does not
prevent you from making a tax-free rollover from IRA-2
into any other traditional IRA. This is because you have
not, within the last year, rolled over, tax free, any distribution from IRA-2 or made a tax-free rollover into IRA-2.

Rollover of required distributions not allowed. If
the owner had a required distribution in the year of his or
her death, you cannot roll over such distribution. If you do
not treat the IRA as your own, you cannot roll over any of
the required distributions in years after your deceased
spouse's death. Any rollover contributions you make to
your own IRA of these required distributions are subject to
the 6% tax discussed in Tax on Excess Contributions,
later.
For more information on distribution rules after the owner's death, see IRA Beneficiaries, later.

Exception. There is an exception to the rule that
amounts rolled over tax free into an IRA cannot be rolled
over tax free again within the 1-year period beginning on
the date of the original distribution. The exception applies
to a distribution that meets all three of the following requirements.

Reporting rollovers from IRAs. Report any rollover
from one traditional IRA to the same or another traditional
IRA on Form 1040, lines 15a and 15b; Form 1040A, lines
11a and 11b; or Form 1040NR, lines 16a and 16b.
Enter the total amount of the distribution on Form 1040,
line 15a; Form 1040A, line 11a; or Form 1040NR,
line 16a. If the total amount on Form 1040, line 15a; Form
1040A, line 11a; or Form 1040NR, line 16a, was rolled
over, enter zero on Form 1040, line 15b; Form 1040A,
line 11b; or Form 1040NR, line 16b. If the total distribution
was not rolled over, enter the taxable portion of the part
that was not rolled over on Form 1040, line 15b; Form
1040A, line 11b; or Form 1040NR, line 16b. Put “Rollover”
next to line 15b, Form 1040; line 11b, Form 1040A; or
line 16b, Form 1040NR. See your tax return instructions.

1. It is made from a failed financial institution by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) as receiver
for the institution.
2. It was not initiated by either the custodial institution or
the depositor.
3. It was made because:
a. The custodial institution is insolvent, and

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 25

If you rolled over the distribution into a qualified plan
(other than an IRA) or you make the rollover in 2014, attach a statement explaining what you did.
For information on how to figure the taxable portion,
see Are Distributions Taxable, later.

Rollover From Employer's Plan
Into an IRA
You can roll over into a traditional IRA all or part of an eligible rollover distribution you receive from your (or your
deceased spouse's):
Employer's qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock
bonus plan;
Annuity plan;
Tax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan); or
Governmental deferred compensation plan (section
457 plan).
A qualified plan is one that meets the requirements of
the Internal Revenue Code.
Eligible rollover distribution. Generally, an eligible rollover distribution is any distribution of all or part of the balance to your credit in a qualified retirement plan except
the following.
1. A required minimum distribution (explained later under When Must You Withdraw Assets? (Required
Minimum Distributions)).
2. A hardship distribution.
3. Any of a series of substantially equal periodic distributions paid at least once a year over:
a. Your lifetime or life expectancy,
b. The lifetimes or life expectancies of you and your
beneficiary, or
c. A period of 10 years or more.
4. Corrective distributions of excess contributions or excess deferrals, and any income allocable to the excess, or of excess annual additions and any allocable
gains.
5. A loan treated as a distribution because it does not
satisfy certain requirements either when made or later
(such as upon default), unless the participant's accrued benefits are reduced (offset) to repay the loan.
6. Dividends on employer securities.
7. The cost of life insurance coverage.
Your rollover into a traditional IRA may include both
amounts that would be taxable and amounts that would
not be taxable if they were distributed to you, but not rolled over. To the extent the distribution is rolled over into a
traditional IRA, it is not includible in your income.

Page 26

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Any nontaxable amounts that you roll over into
your traditional IRA become part of your basis
(cost) in your IRAs. To recover your basis when
you take distributions from your IRA, you must complete
Form 8606 for the year of the distribution. See Form 8606
under Distributions Fully or Partly Taxable, later.

TIP

Rollover by nonspouse beneficiary. If you are a designated beneficiary (other than a surviving spouse) of a deceased employee, you can roll over all or part of an eligible rollover distribution from one of the types of plans
listed above into a traditional IRA. You must make the rollover by a direct trustee-to-trustee transfer into an inherited
IRA.
You will determine your required minimum distributions
in years after you make the rollover based on whether the
employee died before his or her required beginning date
for taking distributions from the plan. For more information, see Distributions after the employee's death under
Tax on Excess Accumulation in Publication 575.
Written explanation to recipients. Before making an eligible rollover distribution, the administrator of a qualified
retirement plan must provide you with a written explanation. It must tell you about all of the following.
Your right to have the distribution paid tax free directly
to a traditional IRA or another eligible retirement plan.
The requirement to withhold tax from the distribution if
it is not paid directly to a traditional IRA or another eligible retirement plan.
The tax treatment of any part of the distribution that
you roll over to a traditional IRA or another eligible retirement plan within 60 days after you receive the distribution.
Other qualified retirement plan rules, if they apply, including those for lump-sum distributions, alternate
payees, and cash or deferred arrangements.
How the plan receiving the distribution differs from the
plan making the distribution in its restrictions and tax
consequences.
The plan administrator must provide you with this written explanation no earlier than 90 days and no later than
30 days before the distribution is made.
However, you can choose to have a distribution made
less than 30 days after the explanation is provided as long
as both of the following requirements are met.
You are given at least 30 days after the notice is provided to consider whether you want to elect a direct rollover.
You are given information that clearly states that you
have this 30-day period to make the decision.
Contact the plan administrator if you have any questions
regarding this information.
Withholding requirement. Generally, if an eligible rollover distribution is paid directly to you, the payer must
withhold 20% of it. This applies even if you plan to roll
over the distribution to a traditional IRA. You can avoid

withholding by choosing the direct rollover option, discussed later.

Table 1-5. Comparison of Payment to You Versus Direct Rollover

Exceptions. The payer does not have to withhold from
an eligible rollover distribution paid to you if either of the
following conditions apply.

Affected item

The distribution and all previous eligible rollover distributions you received during your tax year from the
same plan (or, at the payer's option, from all your employer's plans) total less than $200.
The distribution consists solely of employer securities,
plus cash of $200 or less in lieu of fractional shares.
The amount withheld is part of the distribution. If
you roll over less than the full amount of the distriCAUTION
bution, you may have to include in your income
the amount you do not roll over. However, you can make
up the amount withheld with funds from other sources.

!

Other withholding rules. The 20% withholding requirement does not apply to distributions that are not eligible rollover distributions. However, other withholding rules
apply to these distributions. The rules that apply depend
on whether the distribution is a periodic distribution or a
nonperiodic distribution. For either of these types of distributions, you can still choose not to have tax withheld. For
more information, see Publication 575.
Direct rollover option. Your employer's qualified plan
must give you the option to have any part of an eligible
rollover distribution paid directly to a traditional IRA. The
plan is not required to give you this option if your eligible
rollover distributions are expected to total less than $200
for the year.
Withholding. If you choose the direct rollover option,
no tax is withheld from any part of the designated distribution that is directly paid to the trustee of the traditional IRA.
If any part is paid to you, the payer must withhold 20%
of that part's taxable amount.
Choosing an option. Table 1-5 next may help you decide which distribution option to choose. Carefully compare the effects of each option.

Result of a payment to
you

Result of a
direct rollover

withholding

The payer must withhold
20% of the taxable part.

There is no
withholding.

additional tax

If you are under age 591 2,
a 10% additional tax may
apply to the taxable part
(including an amount
equal to the tax withheld)
that is not rolled over.

There is no 10%
additional tax. See
Early Distributions,
later.

when to report
as income

Any taxable part
(including the taxable part
of any amount withheld)
not rolled over is income
to you in the year paid.

Any taxable part is not
income to you until
later distributed to you
from the IRA.

If you decide to roll over any part of a distribution,
the direct rollover option will generally be to your
advantage. This is because you will not have
20% withholding or be subject to the 10% additional tax
under that option.

TIP

If you have a lump­sum distribution and do not plan to
roll over any part of it, the distribution may be eligible for
special tax treatment that could lower your tax for the distribution year. In that case, you may want to see Publication 575 and Form 4972, Tax on Lump­Sum Distributions,
and its instructions to determine whether your distribution
qualifies for special tax treatment and, if so, to figure your
tax under the special methods.
You can then compare any advantages from using Form
4972 to figure your tax on the lump­sum distribution with
any advantages from rolling over all or part of the distribution. However, if you roll over any part of the lump­sum
distribution, you cannot use the Form 4972 special tax
treatment for any part of the distribution.
Contributions you made to your employer's plan.
You can roll over a distribution of voluntary deductible employee contributions (DECs) you made to your employer's
plan. Prior to January 1, 1987, employees could make and
deduct these contributions to certain qualified employers'
plans and government plans. These are not the same as
an employee's elective contributions to a 401(k) plan,
which are not deductible by the employee.
If you receive a distribution from your employer's qualified plan of any part of the balance of your DECs and the
earnings from them, you can roll over any part of the distribution.
No waiting period between rollovers. The once-a-year
limit on IRA-to-IRA rollovers does not apply to eligible rollover distributions from an employer plan. You can roll over
more than one distribution from the same employer plan
within a year.
IRA as a holding account (conduit IRA) for rollovers
to other eligible plans. If you receive an eligible rollover
distribution from your employer's plan, you can roll over
part or all of it into one or more conduit IRAs. You can later
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 27

roll over those assets into a new employer's plan. You can
use a traditional IRA as a conduit IRA. You can roll over
part or all of the conduit IRA to a qualified plan, even if you
make regular contributions to it or add funds from sources
other than your employer's plan. However, if you make
regular contributions to the conduit IRA or add funds from
other sources, the qualified plan into which you move
funds will not be eligible for any optional tax treatment for
which it might have otherwise qualified.
Property and cash received in a distribution. If you
receive both property and cash in an eligible rollover distribution, you can roll over part or all of the property, part
or all of the cash, or any combination of the two that you
choose.
The same property (or sales proceeds) must be
rolled over. If you receive property in an eligible rollover
distribution from a qualified retirement plan, you cannot
keep the property and contribute cash to a traditional IRA
in place of the property. You must either roll over the property or sell it and roll over the proceeds, as explained next.
Sale of property received in a distribution from a
qualified plan. Instead of rolling over a distribution of
property other than cash, you can sell all or part of the
property and roll over the amount you receive from the
sale (the proceeds) into a traditional IRA. You cannot
keep the property and substitute your own funds for property you received.
Example. You receive a total distribution from your
employer's plan consisting of $10,000 cash and $15,000
worth of property. You decide to keep the property. You
can roll over to a traditional IRA the $10,000 cash received, but you cannot roll over an additional $15,000 representing the value of the property you choose not to sell.
Treatment of gain or loss. If you sell the distributed
property and roll over all the proceeds into a traditional
IRA, no gain or loss is recognized. The sale proceeds (including any increase in value) are treated as part of the
distribution and are not included in your gross income.
Example. On September 6, Mike received a lump-sum
distribution from his employer's retirement plan of $50,000
in cash and $50,000 in stock. The stock was not stock of
his employer. On September 24, he sold the stock for
$60,000. On October 6, he rolled over $110,000 in cash
($50,000 from the original distribution and $60,000 from
the sale of stock). Mike does not include the $10,000 gain
from the sale of stock as part of his income because he
rolled over the entire amount into a traditional IRA.
Note. Special rules may apply to distributions of employer securities. For more information, see Figuring the
Taxable Amount under Taxation of Nonperiodic Payments
in Publication 575.
Partial rollover. If you received both cash and property,
or just property, but did not roll over the entire distribution,
see Rollovers in Publication 575.

Page 28

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Life insurance contract. You cannot roll over a life insurance contract from a qualified plan into a traditional
IRA.
Distributions received by a surviving spouse. If you
receive an eligible rollover distribution (defined earlier)
from your deceased spouse's eligible retirement plan (defined earlier), you can roll over part or all of it into a traditional IRA. You can also roll over all or any part of a distribution of deductible employee contributions (DECs).
Distributions under divorce or similar proceedings
(alternate payees). If you are the spouse or former
spouse of an employee and you receive a distribution
from a qualified retirement plan as a result of divorce or
similar proceedings, you may be able to roll over all or part
of it into a traditional IRA. To qualify, the distribution must
be:
One that would have been an eligible rollover distribution (defined earlier) if it had been made to the employee, and
Made under a qualified domestic relations order.
Qualified domestic relations order. A domestic relations order is a judgment, decree, or order (including approval of a property settlement agreement) that is issued
under the domestic relations law of a state. A “qualified
domestic relations order” gives to an alternate payee (a
spouse, former spouse, child, or dependent of a participant in a retirement plan) the right to receive all or part of
the benefits that would be payable to a participant under
the plan. The order requires certain specific information,
and it cannot alter the amount or form of the benefits of
the plan.
Tax treatment if all of an eligible distribution is not
rolled over. Any part of an eligible rollover distribution
that you keep is taxable in the year you receive it. If you do
not roll over any of it, special rules for lump-sum distributions may apply. See Lump­Sum Distributions under Taxation of Nonperiodic Payments in Publication 575. The
10% additional tax on early distributions, discussed later
under What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional Taxes,
does not apply.
Keogh plans and rollovers. If you are self-employed,
you are generally treated as an employee for rollover purposes. Consequently, if you receive an eligible rollover
distribution from a Keogh plan (a qualified plan with at
least one self-employed participant), you can roll over all
or part of the distribution (including a lump-sum distribution) into a traditional IRA. For information on lump-sum
distributions, see Lump­Sum Distributions under Taxation
of Nonperiodic Payments in Publication 575.
More information. For more information about Keogh
plans, see chapter 4 of Publication 560.
Distribution from a tax­sheltered annuity. If you receive an eligible rollover distribution from a tax-sheltered
annuity plan (section 403(b) plan), you can roll it over into
a traditional IRA.

Receipt of property other than money. If you receive property other than money, you can sell the property
and roll over the proceeds as discussed earlier.
Rollover from bond purchase plan. If you redeem retirement bonds that were distributed to you under a qualified bond purchase plan, you can roll over tax free into a
traditional IRA the part of the amount you receive that is
more than your basis in the retirement bonds.
Reporting rollovers from employer plans. Enter the
total distribution (before income tax or other deductions
were withheld) on Form 1040, line 16a; Form 1040A,
line 12a; or Form 1040NR, line 17a. This amount should
be shown in box 1 of Form 1099-R. From this amount,
subtract any contributions (usually shown in box 5 of Form
1099-R) that were taxable to you when made. From that
result, subtract the amount that was rolled over either directly or within 60 days of receiving the distribution. Enter
the remaining amount, even if zero, on Form 1040, line
16b; Form 1040A, line 12b; or Form 1040NR, line 17b.
Also, enter "Rollover" next to line 16b on Form 1040;
line 12b of Form 1040A; or line 17b of Form 1040NR.

Rollover of Exxon Valdez
Settlement Income
If you are a qualified taxpayer (defined next) and you received qualified settlement income (defined below), you
can contribute all or part of the amount received to an eligible retirement plan which includes a traditional IRA. The
amount contributed cannot exceed $100,000 (reduced by
the amount of qualified settlement income contributed to
an eligible retirement plan in prior tax years) or the amount
of qualified settlement income received during the tax
year. Contributions for the year can be made until the due
date for filing your return, not including extensions.
Qualified settlement income that you contribute to a traditional IRA will be treated as having been rolled over in a
direct trustee-to-trustee transfer within 60 days of the distribution. The amount contributed is not included in your
income at the time of the contributions and is not considered to be investment in the contract. Also, the 1-year
waiting period between rollovers does not apply.
Qualified taxpayer. You are a qualified taxpayer if you
are:
A plaintiff in the civil action In re Exxon Valdez, No.
89-095-CV (HRH) (Consolidated) (D.Alaska), or
The beneficiary of the estate of a plaintiff who acquired the right to receive qualified settlement income
and who is the spouse or immediate relative of that
plaintiff.
Qualified settlement income. Qualified settlement income is any interest and punitive damage awards which
are:
Otherwise includible in income, and

Received in connection with the civil action In re Exxon Valdez, No. 89-095-CV (HRH) (Consolidated)
(D.Alaska) (whether pre- or post-judgment and
whether related to a settlement or judgment).
Qualified settlement income can be received as periodic
payments or as a lump sum. See Miscellaneous Income in
Publication 525, Taxable and Nontaxable Income, for information on how to report qualified settlement income.

Transfers Incident To Divorce
If an interest in a traditional IRA is transferred from your
spouse or former spouse to you by a divorce or separate
maintenance decree or a written document related to such
a decree, the interest in the IRA, starting from the date of
the transfer, is treated as your IRA. The transfer is tax
free. For information about transfers of interests in employer plans, see Distributions under divorce or similar
proceedings (alternate payees) under Rollover From Employer's Plan Into an IRA, earlier.
Transfer methods. There are two commonly used methods of transferring IRA assets to a spouse or former
spouse. The methods are:
Changing the name on the IRA, and
Making a direct transfer of IRA assets.
Changing the name on the IRA. If all the assets are
to be transferred, you can make the transfer by changing
the name on the IRA from your name to the name of your
spouse or former spouse.
Direct transfer. Under this method, you direct the
trustee of the traditional IRA to transfer the affected assets
directly to the trustee of a new or existing traditional IRA
set up in the name of your spouse or former spouse.
If your spouse or former spouse is allowed to keep his
or her portion of the IRA assets in your existing IRA, you
can direct the trustee to transfer the assets you are permitted to keep directly to a new or existing traditional IRA
set up in your name. The name on the IRA containing your
spouse's or former spouse's portion of the assets would
then be changed to show his or her ownership.
If the transfer results in a change in the basis of
the traditional IRA of either spouse, both spouses
CAUTION
must file Form 8606 and follow the directions in
the instructions for that form.

!

Converting From Any Traditional IRA
Into a Roth IRA
Allowable conversions. You can withdraw all or part of
the assets from a traditional IRA and reinvest them (within
60 days) in a Roth IRA. The amount that you withdraw and
timely contribute (convert) to the Roth IRA is called a conversion contribution. If properly (and timely) rolled over,
the 10% additional tax on early distributions will not apply.

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 29

However, a part or all of the distribution from your traditional IRA may be included in gross income and subjected
to ordinary income tax.
You must roll over into the Roth IRA the same property
you received from the traditional IRA. You can roll over
part of the withdrawal into a Roth IRA and keep the rest of
it. The amount you keep will generally be taxable (except
for the part that is a return of nondeductible contributions)
and may be subject to the 10% additional tax on early distributions. See When Can You Withdraw or Use Assets,
later, for more information on distributions from traditional
IRAs and Early Distributions, later, for more information on
the tax on early distributions.
Periodic distributions. If you started taking substantially equal periodic payments from a traditional IRA, you
can convert the amounts in the traditional IRA to a Roth
IRA and then continue the periodic payments. The 10%
additional tax on early distributions will not apply even if
the distributions are not qualified distributions (as long as
they are part of a series of substantially equal periodic
payments).
Required distributions. You cannot convert amounts
that must be distributed from your traditional IRA for a particular year (including the calendar year in which you
reach age 701 2) under the required distribution rules (discussed later in this chapter).
Income. You must include in your gross income distributions from a traditional IRA that you would have had to include in income if you had not converted them into a Roth
IRA. These amounts are normally included in income on
your return for the year that you converted them from a
traditional IRA to a Roth IRA.
You do not include in gross income any part of a distribution from a traditional IRA that is a return of your basis,
as discussed under Are Distributions Taxable, later in this
chapter.
If you must include any amount in your gross income, you may have to increase your withholding
CAUTION
or make estimated tax payments. See Publication
505, Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax.

!

Recharacterizations
You may be able to treat a contribution made to one type
of IRA as having been made to a different type of IRA.
This is called recharacterizing the contribution.
To recharacterize a contribution, you generally must
have the contribution transferred from the first IRA (the
one to which it was made) to the second IRA in a
trustee-to-trustee transfer. If the transfer is made by the
due date (including extensions) for your tax return for the
tax year during which the contribution was made, you can
elect to treat the contribution as having been originally
made to the second IRA instead of to the first IRA. If you

Page 30

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

recharacterize your contribution, you must do all three of
the following.
Include in the transfer any net income allocable to the
contribution. If there was a loss, the net income you
must transfer may be a negative amount.
Report the recharacterization on your tax return for the
year during which the contribution was made.
Treat the contribution as having been made to the
second IRA on the date that it was actually made to
the first IRA.
No deduction allowed. You cannot deduct the contribution to the first IRA. Any net income you transfer with the
recharacterized contribution is treated as earned in the
second IRA. The contribution will not be treated as having
been made to the second IRA to the extent any deduction
was allowed for the contribution to the first IRA.
Conversion by rollover from traditional to Roth IRA.
For recharacterization purposes, if you receive a distribution from a traditional IRA in one tax year and roll it over
into a Roth IRA in the next year, but still within 60 days of
the distribution from the traditional IRA, treat it as a contribution to the Roth IRA in the year of the distribution from
the traditional IRA.
Effect of previous tax­free transfers. If an amount has
been moved from one IRA to another in a tax-free transfer, such as a rollover, you generally cannot recharacterize the amount that was transferred. However, see Traditional IRA mistakenly moved to SIMPLE IRA below.
Recharacterizing to a SEP IRA or SIMPLE IRA.
Roth IRA conversion contributions from a SEP IRA or
SIMPLE IRA can be recharacterized to a SEP IRA or SIMPLE IRA (including the original SEP IRA or SIMPLE IRA).
Traditional IRA mistakenly moved to SIMPLE IRA.
If you mistakenly roll over or transfer an amount from a traditional IRA to a SIMPLE IRA, you can later recharacterize
the amount as a contribution to another traditional IRA.
Recharacterizing excess contributions. You can recharacterize only actual contributions. If you are applying
excess contributions for prior years as current contributions, you can recharacterize them only if the recharacterization would still be timely with respect to the tax year for
which the applied contributions were actually made.
Example. You contributed more than you were entitled
to in 2013. You cannot recharacterize the excess contributions you made in 2013 after April 15, 2014, because
contributions after that date are no longer timely for 2013.
Recharacterizing employer contributions. You cannot
recharacterize employer contributions (including elective
deferrals) under a SEP or SIMPLE plan as contributions to
another IRA. SEPs are discussed in chapter 2 of Publication 560. SIMPLE plans are discussed in chapter 3.

Worksheet 1-3. Determining the Amount of Net Income Due
To an IRA Contribution and Total Amount To
Be Recharacterized
1.
2.
3.

4.
5.
6.
7.

Keep for Your Records

Enter the amount of your IRA contribution for 2014 to be recharacterized . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately prior to the recharacterization (include any
distributions, transfers, or recharacterization made while the contribution was in the
account) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately prior to the time the contribution being
recharacterized was made, including the amount of such contribution and any other
contributions, transfers, or recharacterizations made while the contribution was in the
account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Subtract line 3 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
Divide line 4 by line 3. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places) . . . . . . 5.
Multiply line 1 by line 5. This is the net income attributable to the contribution to be
recharacterized . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
Add lines 1 and 6. This is the amount of the IRA contribution plus the net income attributable
to it to be recharacterized . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

Recharacterization not counted as rollover. The recharacterization of a contribution is not treated as a rollover for purposes of the 1-year waiting period described
earlier in this chapter under Rollover From One IRA Into
Another. This is true even if the contribution would have
been treated as a rollover contribution by the second IRA
if it had been made directly to the second IRA rather than
as a result of a recharacterization of a contribution to the
first IRA.

Reconversions
You cannot convert and reconvert an amount during the
same tax year or, if later, during the 30-day period following a recharacterization. If you reconvert during either of
these periods, it will be a failed conversion.
Example. If you convert an amount from a traditional
IRA to a Roth IRA and then transfer that amount back to a
traditional IRA in a recharacterization in the same year,
you may not reconvert that amount from the traditional
IRA to a Roth IRA before:
The beginning of the year following the year in which
the amount was converted to a Roth IRA or, if later,
The end of the 30-day period beginning on the day on
which you transfer the amount from the Roth IRA back
to a traditional IRA in a recharacterization.

How Do You Recharacterize a Contribution?
To recharacterize a contribution, you must notify both the
trustee of the first IRA (the one to which the contribution
was actually made) and the trustee of the second IRA (the
one to which the contribution is being moved) that you
have elected to treat the contribution as having been
made to the second IRA rather than the first. You must
make the notifications by the date of the transfer. Only one
notification is required if both IRAs are maintained by the

same trustee. The notification(s) must include all of the
following information.
The type and amount of the contribution to the first
IRA that is to be recharacterized.
The date on which the contribution was made to the
first IRA and the year for which it was made.
A direction to the trustee of the first IRA to transfer in a
trustee-to-trustee transfer the amount of the contribution and any net income (or loss) allocable to the contribution to the trustee of the second IRA.
The name of the trustee of the first IRA and the name
of the trustee of the second IRA.
Any additional information needed to make the transfer.
In most cases, the net income you must transfer is determined by your IRA trustee or custodian. If you need to
determine the applicable net income on IRA contributions
made after 2013 that are recharacterized, use Worksheet
1-3 above. See Regulations section 1.408A-5 for more information.
Example. On April 1, 2014, when her Roth IRA is
worth $80,000, Allison makes a $160,000 conversion contribution to the Roth IRA. Subsequently, Allison requests
that the $160,000 be recharacterized to a traditional IRA.
Pursuant to this request, on April 1, 2015, when the IRA is
worth $225,000, the Roth IRA trustee transfers to a traditional IRA the $160,000 plus allocable net income. No
other contributions have been made to the Roth IRA and
no distributions have been made.
The adjusted opening balance is $240,000 ($80,000 +
$160,000) and the adjusted closing balance is $225,000.
Thus the net income allocable to the $160,000 is
($10,000). See lines 1 through 6 of Worksheet 1-3. Example—Illustrated, later, for the calculation. Therefore, in order to recharacterize the April 1, 2014, $160,000 conversion contribution on April 1, 2015, the Roth IRA trustee
must transfer from Allison's Roth IRA to her traditional IRA
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 31

$150,000 ($160,000 – $10,000). This is shown on line 7 of
Worksheet 1-3. Example—Illustrated, later.
Timing. The election to recharacterize and the transfer
must both take place on or before the due date (including
extensions) for filing your tax return for the tax year for
which the contribution was made to the first IRA.
Extension. Ordinarily you must choose to recharacterize a contribution by the due date of the return or the due
date plus extensions. However, if you miss this deadline,
you can still recharacterize a contribution if:
Your return was timely filed for the year the choice
should have been made, and
You take appropriate corrective action within 6 months
from the due date of your return excluding extensions.
For returns due April 15, 2014, this period ends on
October 15, 2014. When the date for doing any act for
tax purposes falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the due date is delayed until the next business
day.
Appropriate corrective action consists of:
Notifying the trustee(s) of your intent to recharacterize,
Providing the trustee with all necessary information,
and
Having the trustee transfer the contribution.
Once this is done, you must amend your return to show
the recharacterization. You have until the regular due date
for amending a return to do this. Report the recharacterization on the amended return and write “Filed pursuant to
section 301.9100-2” on the return. File the amended return at the same address you filed the original return.

Same trustee. Recharacterizations made with the same
trustee can be made by redesignating the first IRA as the
second IRA, rather than transferring the account balance.

Reporting a Recharacterization
If you elect to recharacterize a contribution to one IRA as
a contribution to another IRA, you must report the recharacterization on your tax return as directed by Form 8606
and its instructions. You must treat the contribution as
having been made to the second IRA.
Example. On June 1, 2013, Christine properly and
timely converted her traditional IRA to a Roth IRA. In December, Christine decided to recharacterize the conversion and move the funds to a traditional IRA. In January
2014, to make the necessary adjustment to remove the
conversion, Christine opened a traditional IRA with the
same trustee. Also in January 2014, she instructed the
trustee of the Roth IRA to make a trustee-to-trustee transfer of the conversion contribution made to the Roth IRA
(including net income allocable to it since the conversion)
to the new traditional IRA. She also notified the trustee
that she was electing to recharacterize the contribution to
the Roth IRA and treat it as if it had been contributed to
the new traditional IRA. Because of the recharacterization,
Christine has no taxable income from the conversion to
report for 2013, and the resulting rollover to a traditional
IRA is not treated as a rollover for purposes of the
one-rollover-per-year rule.
More than one IRA. If you have more than one IRA, figure the amount to be recharacterized only on the account
from which you withdraw the contribution.

Decedent. The election to recharacterize can be
made on behalf of a deceased IRA owner by the executor,
administrator, or other person responsible for filing the decedent's final income tax return.

When Can You Withdraw or
Use Assets?

Election cannot be changed. After the transfer has
taken place, you cannot change your election to recharacterize.

You can withdraw or use your traditional IRA assets at any
time. However, a 10% additional tax generally applies if
you withdraw or use IRA assets before you are age 591 2.

Worksheet 1-3. Example—Illustrated
1.
2.
3.

4.
5.
6.
7.

Keep for Your Records

Enter the amount of your IRA contribution for 2014 to be recharacterized . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately prior to the recharacterization (include any
distributions, transfers, or recharacterization made while the contribution was in the
account) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately prior to the time the contribution being
recharacterized was made, including the amount of such contribution and any other
contributions, transfers, or recharacterizations made while the contribution was in the
account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Subtract line 3 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
Divide line 4 by line 3. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places) . . . . . . 5.
Multiply line 1 by line 5. This is the net income attributable to the contribution to be
recharacterized . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
Add lines 1 and 6. This is the amount of the IRA contribution plus the net income attributable
to it to be recharacterized . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

Page 32

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

160,000
225,000

240,000
(15,000)
(.0625)
(10,000)
150,000

Worksheet 1-4. Determining the Amount of Net Income Due
To an IRA Contribution and Total Amount To
Be Withdrawn From the IRA
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Keep for Your Records

Enter the amount of your IRA contribution for 2014 to be returned to you . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately prior to the removal of the contribution,
plus the amount of any distributions, transfers, and recharacterizations made while the
contribution was in the IRA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately before the contribution was made, plus the
amount of such contribution and any other contributions, transfers, and recharacterizations
made while the contribution was in the IRA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Subtract line 3 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
Divide line 4 by line 3. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places) . . . . . . 5.
Multiply line 1 by line 5. This is the net income attributable to the contribution to be
returned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
Add lines 1 and 6. This is the amount of the IRA contribution plus the net income attributable
to it to be returned to you . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

This is explained under Age 591 2 Rule under Early Distributions, later.
You generally can make a tax-free withdrawal of contributions if you do it before the due date for filing your tax
return for the year in which you made them. This means
that, even if you are under age 591 2, the 10% additional
tax may not apply. These withdrawals are explained next.

Contributions Returned
Before Due Date of Return
If you made IRA contributions in 2013, you can withdraw
them tax free by the due date of your return. If you have
an extension of time to file your return, you can withdraw
them tax free by the extended due date. You can do this if,
for each contribution you withdraw, both of the following
conditions apply.
You did not take a deduction for the contribution.
You withdraw any interest or other income earned on
the contribution. You can take into account any loss
on the contribution while it was in the IRA when calculating the amount that must be withdrawn. If there was
a loss, the net income earned on the contribution may
be a negative amount.
Note. If you timely filed your 2013 tax return without
withdrawing a contribution that you made in 2013, you can
still have the contribution returned to you within 6 months
of the due date of your 2013 tax return, excluding extensions. If you do, file an amended return with “Filed pursuant to section 301.9100-2” written at the top. Report any
related earnings on the amended return and include an
explanation of the withdrawal. Make any other necessary
changes on the amended return (for example, if you reported the contributions as excess contributions on your
original return, include an amended Form 5329 reflecting
that the withdrawn contributions are no longer treated as
having been contributed).
In most cases, the net income you must withdraw is determined by the IRA trustee or custodian. If you need to

determine the applicable net income on IRA contributions
made after 2013 that are returned to you, use Worksheet
1-4 above. See Regulations section 1.408-11 for more information.
Example. On May 2, 2014, when her IRA is worth
$4,800, Cathy makes a $1,600 regular contribution to her
IRA. Cathy requests that $400 of the May 2, 2014 contribution be returned to her. On February 2, 2015, when the
IRA is worth $7,600, the IRA trustee distributes to Cathy
the $400 plus net income attributable to the contribution.
No other contributions have been made to the IRA for
2014 and no distributions have been made.
The adjusted opening balance is $6,400 ($4,800 +
$1,600) and the adjusted closing balance is $7,600. The
net income due to the May 2, 2014, contribution is $75
($400 x ($7,600 – $6,400) ÷ $6,400). Therefore, the total
to be distributed on February 2, 2015, is $475. This is
shown on Worksheet 1-4. Example—Illustrated, later.
Last­in first­out rule. If you made more than one regular
contribution for the year, your last contribution is considered to be the one that is returned to you first.

Earnings Includible in Income
You must include in income any earnings on the contributions you withdraw. Include the earnings in income for the
year in which you made the contributions, not the year in
which you withdraw them.
Generally, except for any part of a withdrawal that
is a return of nondeductible contributions (basis),
CAUTION
any withdrawal of your contributions after the due
date (or extended due date) of your return will be treated
as a taxable distribution. Excess contributions can also be
recovered tax free as discussed under What Acts Result
in Penalties or Additional Taxes, later.

!

Early Distributions Tax
The 10% additional tax on distributions made before you
reach age 591 2 does not apply to these tax-free
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 33

Worksheet 1-4. Example—Illustrated
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Keep for Your Records

Enter the amount of your IRA contribution for 2014 to be returned to you . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately prior to the removal of the contribution,
plus the amount of any distributions, transfers, and recharacterizations made while the
contribution was in the IRA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately before the contribution was made, plus the
amount of such contribution and any other contributions, transfers, and recharacterizations
made while the contribution was in the IRA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Subtract line 3 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
Divide line 4 by line 3. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places) . . . . . . 5.
Multiply line 1 by line 5. This is the net income attributable to the contribution to be
returned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
Add lines 1 and 6. This is the amount of the IRA contribution plus the net income attributable
to it to be returned to you . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

withdrawals of your contributions. However, the distribution of interest or other income must be reported on Form
5329 and, unless the distribution qualifies as an exception
to the age 591 2 rule, it will be subject to this tax. See Early
Distributions under What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional Taxes, later.

Excess Contributions Tax
If any part of these contributions is an excess contribution
for 2012, it is subject to a 6% excise tax. You will not have
to pay the 6% tax if any 2012 excess contribution was
withdrawn by April 15, 2013 (plus extensions), and if any
2013 excess contribution is withdrawn by April 15, 2014
(plus extensions). See Excess Contributions under What
Acts Result in Penalties or Additional Taxes, later.
You may be able to treat a contribution made to
one type of IRA as having been made to a different type of IRA. This is called recharacterizing the
contribution. See Recharacterizations, earlier, for more information.

TIP

When Must You Withdraw
Assets? (Required Minimum
Distributions)
You cannot keep funds in a traditional IRA indefinitely.
Eventually they must be distributed. If there are no distributions, or if the distributions are not large enough, you
may have to pay a 50% excise tax on the amount not distributed as required. See Excess Accumulations (Insufficient Distributions), later under What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional Taxes. The requirements for distributing
IRA funds differ, depending on whether you are the IRA
owner or the beneficiary of a decedent's IRA.
Required minimum distribution. The amount that must
be distributed each year is referred to as the required minimum distribution.

Page 34

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

400
7,600
6,400
1,200
.1875
75
475

Distributions not eligible for rollover. Amounts that
must be distributed (required minimum distributions) during a particular year are not eligible for rollover treatment.
Note. A qualified charitable distribution will count towards your required minimum distribution. See Qualified
charitable distributions under Are Distributions Taxable,
later.

IRA Owners
If you are the owner of a traditional IRA, you must generally start receiving distributions from your IRA by April 1 of
the year following the year in which you reach age 701 2.
April 1 of the year following the year in which you reach
age 701 2 is referred to as the required beginning date.
Distributions by the required beginning date. You
must receive at least a minimum amount for each year
starting with the year you reach age 701 2 (your 701 2 year).
If you do not (or did not) receive that minimum amount in
your 701 2 year, then you must receive distributions for your
701 2 year by April 1 of the next year.
If an IRA owner dies after reaching age 701 2, but before
April 1 of the next year, no minimum distribution is required because death occurred before the required beginning date.
Even if you begin receiving distributions before
you reach age 701 2, you must begin calculating
CAUTION
and receiving required minimum distributions by
your required beginning date.

!

More than minimum received. If, in any year, you receive more than the required minimum distribution for that
year, you will not receive credit for the additional amount
when determining the minimum required distributions for
future years. This does not mean that you do not reduce
your IRA account balance. It means that if you receive
more than your required minimum distribution in one year,
you cannot treat the excess (the amount that is more than
the required minimum distribution) as part of your required
minimum distribution for any later year. However, any
amount distributed in your 701 2 year will be credited

toward the amount that must be distributed by April 1 of
the following year.
Distributions after the required beginning date. The
required minimum distribution for any year after the year
you turn 701 2 must be made by December 31 of that later
year.
Example. You reach age 701 2 on August 20, 2013. For
2013, you must receive the required minimum distribution
from your IRA by April 1, 2014. You must receive the required minimum distribution for 2014 by December 31,
2014.
If you do not receive your required minimum distribution for 2013 until 2014, both your 2013 and
CAUTION
your 2014 distributions will be included in income
on your 2014 return.

!

Distributions from individual retirement account. If
you are the owner of a traditional IRA that is an individual
retirement account, you or your trustee must figure the required minimum distribution for each year. See Figuring
the Owner's Required Minimum Distribution below.
Distributions from individual retirement annuities. If
your traditional IRA is an individual retirement annuity,
special rules apply to figuring the required minimum distribution. For more information on rules for annuities, see
Regulations section 1.401(a)(9)-6. These regulations can
be read in many libraries, IRS offices, and online at
IRS.gov.
Change in marital status. For purposes of figuring your
required minimum distribution, your marital status is determined as of January 1 of each year. If your spouse is a
beneficiary of your IRA on January 1, he or she remains a
beneficiary for the entire year even if you get divorced or
your spouse dies during the year. For purposes of determining your distribution period, a change in beneficiary is
effective in the year following the year of death or divorce.
Change of beneficiary. If your spouse is the sole
beneficiary of your IRA, and he or she dies before you,
your spouse will not fail to be your sole beneficiary for the
year that he or she died solely because someone other
than your spouse is named a beneficiary for the rest of
that year. However, if you get divorced during the year
and change the beneficiary designation on the IRA during
that same year, your former spouse will not be treated as
the sole beneficiary for that year.

Figuring the Owner's Required Minimum
Distribution
Figure your required minimum distribution for each year
by dividing the IRA account balance (defined next) as of
the close of business on December 31 of the preceding
year by the applicable distribution period or life expectancy. Tables showing distribution periods and life expectancies are found in Appendix C and are discussed later.

IRA account balance. The IRA account balance is the
amount in the IRA at the end of the year preceding the
year for which the required minimum distribution is being
figured.
Contributions. Contributions increase the account
balance in the year they are made. If a contribution for last
year is not made until after December 31 of last year, it increases the account balance for this year, but not for last
year. Disregard contributions made after December 31 of
last year in determining your required minimum distribution for this year.
Outstanding rollovers and recharacterizations.
The IRA account balance is adjusted by outstanding rollovers and recharacterizations of Roth IRA conversions
that are not in any account at the end of the preceding
year.
For a rollover from a qualified plan or another IRA that
was not in any account at the end of the preceding year,
increase the account balance of the receiving IRA by the
rollover amount valued as of the date of receipt.
If a conversion contribution is contributed to a Roth IRA
and that amount (plus net income allocable to it) is transferred to another IRA in a subsequent year as a recharacterized contribution, increase the account balance of the
receiving IRA by the recharacterized contribution (plus allocable net income) for the year in which the conversion
occurred.
Distributions. Distributions reduce the account balance in the year they are made. A distribution for last year
made after December 31 of last year reduces the account
balance for this year, but not for last year. Disregard distributions made after December 31 of last year in determining your required minimum distribution for this year.
Example 1. Laura was born on October 1, 1942. She
reaches age 701 2 in 2013. Her required beginning date is
April 1, 2014. As of December 31, 2012, her IRA account
balance was $26,500. No rollover or recharacterization
amounts were outstanding. Using Table III in Appendix C,
the applicable distribution period for someone her age
(71) is 26.5 years. Her required minimum distribution for
2013 is $1,000 ($26,500 ÷ 26.5). That amount is distributed to her on April 1, 2014.
Example 2. Joe, born October 1, 1942, reached 701 2
in 2013. His wife (his beneficiary) turned 56 in September
2013. He must begin receiving distributions by April 1,
2014. Joe's IRA account balance as of December 31,
2012, is $30,100. Because Joe's wife is more than 10
years younger than Joe and is the sole beneficiary of his
IRA, Joe uses Table II in Appendix C. Based on their ages
at year end (December 31, 2013), the joint life expectancy
for Joe (age 71) and his wife (age 56) is 30.1 years. The
required minimum distribution for 2013, Joe's first distribution year, is $1,000 ($30,100 ÷ 30.1). This amount is distributed to Joe on April 1, 2014.
Distribution period. This is the maximum number of
years over which you are allowed to take distributions
from the IRA. The period to use for 2013 is listed next to
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 35

your age as of your birthday in 2013 in Table III in Appendix C.
Life expectancy. If you must use Table I, your life expectancy for 2014 is listed in the table next to your age as
of your birthday in 2014. If you use Table II, your life expectancy is listed where the row or column containing
your age as of your birthday in 2014 intersects with the
row or column containing your spouse's age as of his or
her birthday in 2014. Both Table I and Table II are in Appendix C.
Distributions during your lifetime. Required minimum
distributions during your lifetime are based on a distribution period that generally is determined using Table III
(Uniform Lifetime) in Appendix C. However, if the sole
beneficiary of your IRA is your spouse who is more than
10 years younger than you, see Sole beneficiary spouse
who is more than 10 years younger below.
To figure the required minimum distribution for 2014, divide your account balance at the end of 2013 by the distribution period from the table. This is the distribution period
listed next to your age (as of your birthday in 2014) in Table III in Appendix C, unless the sole beneficiary of your
IRA is your spouse who is more than 10 years younger
than you.
Example. You own a traditional IRA. Your account balance at the end of 2013 was $100,000. You are married
and your spouse, who is the sole beneficiary of your IRA,
is 6 years younger than you. You turn 75 years old in
2014. You use Table III. Your distribution period is 22.9.
Your required minimum distribution for 2014 would be
$4,367 ($100,000 ÷ 22.9).
Sole beneficiary spouse who is more than 10
years younger. If the sole beneficiary of your IRA is your
spouse and your spouse is more than 10 years younger
than you, use the life expectancy from Table II (Joint Life
and Last Survivor Expectancy) in Appendix C.
The life expectancy to use is the joint life and last survivor expectancy listed where the row or column containing
your age as of your birthday in 2014 intersects with the
row or column containing your spouse's age as of his or
her birthday in 2014.
You figure your required minimum distribution for 2014
by dividing your account balance at the end of 2013 by the
life expectancy from Table II (Joint Life and Last Survivor
Expectancy) in Appendix C.
Example. You own a traditional IRA. Your account balance at the end of 2013 was $100,000. You are married
and your spouse, who is the sole beneficiary of your IRA,
is 11 years younger than you. You turn 75 in 2014 and
your spouse turns 64. You use Table II. Your joint life and
last survivor expectancy is 23.6. Your required minimum
distribution for 2014 would be $4,237 ($100,000 ÷ 23.6).
Distributions in the year of the owner's death. The required minimum distribution for the year of the owner's
death depends on whether the owner died before the required beginning date, defined earlier.
Page 36

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

If the owner died before the required beginning date,
there is no required minimum distribution in the year of the
owner's death. For years after the year of the owner's
death, see Owner Died Before Required Beginning Date,
later, under IRA Beneficiaries.
If the owner died on or after the required beginning
date, the IRA beneficiaries are responsible for figuring and
distributing the owner's required minimum distribution in
the year of death. The owner's required minimum distribution for the year of death generally is based on Table III
(Uniform Lifetime) in Appendix C. However, if the sole
beneficiary of the IRA is the owner's spouse who is more
than 10 years younger than the owner, use the life expectancy from Table II (Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy).
Note. You figure the required minimum distribution for
the year in which an IRA owner dies as if the owner lived
for the entire year.

IRA Beneficiaries
The rules for determining required minimum distributions
for beneficiaries depend on the following.
The beneficiary is the surviving spouse.
The beneficiary is an individual (other than the surviving spouse).
The beneficiary is not an individual (for example, the
beneficiary is the owner's estate). (But see Trust as
beneficiary, later, for a discussion about treating trust
beneficiaries as designated beneficiaries.)
The IRA owner died before the required beginning
date, or died on or after the required beginning date.
The following paragraphs explain the rules for required
minimum distributions and beneficiaries.
If distributions to the beneficiary from an inherited
traditional IRA are less than the required miniCAUTION
mum distribution for the year, discussed in this
chapter under When Must You Withdraw Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions), you may have to pay a
50% excise tax for that year on the amount not distributed
as required. For details, see Excess Accumulations (Insufficient Distributions) under What Acts Result in Penalties
or Additional Taxes? later in this chapter.

!

Surviving spouse. If you are the surviving spouse who is
the sole beneficiary of your deceased spouse's IRA, you
may elect to be treated as the owner and not as the beneficiary. If you elect to be treated as the owner, you determine the required minimum distribution (if any) as if you
were the owner beginning with the year you elect or are
deemed to be the owner. For details, see Inherited from
spouse under What if You Inherit an IRA, earlier in this
chapter.
Note. If you become the owner in the year your deceased spouse died, do not determine the required minimum distribution for that year using your life; rather, you

must take the deceased owner's required minimum distribution for that year (to the extent it was not already distributed to the owner before his or her death).
You can never make a rollover contribution of a
required minimum distribution. Any rollover conCAUTION
tribution is subject to the 6% tax on excess contributions, as discussed in Rollover of required distributions
not allowed, earlier.

!

For any year after the owner’s death, where a
surviving spouse is the sole designated beneficiary of the account and he or she fails to take a
required minimum distribution (if one is required) by December 31 under the rules discussed below for beneficiaries, he or she will be deemed the owner of the IRA. For
details, see Inherited from spouse under What if You Inherit an IRA, earlier in this chapter.

TIP

Date the designated beneficiary is determined. Generally, the designated beneficiary is determined on September 30 of the calendar year following the calendar year
of the IRA owner's death. In order to be a designated beneficiary, an individual must be a beneficiary as of the date
of death. Any person who was a beneficiary on the date of
the owner's death, but is not a beneficiary on September
30 of the calendar year following the calendar year of the
owner's death (because, for example, he or she disclaimed entitlement or received his or her entire benefit),
will not be taken into account in determining the designated beneficiary. An individual may be designated as a
beneficiary either by the terms of the plan or, if the plan
permits, by affirmative election by the employee specifying the beneficiary.
Note. If a person who is a beneficiary as of the owner's
date of death dies before September 30 of the year following the year of the owner's death without disclaiming entitlement to benefits, that individual, rather than his or her
successor beneficiary, continues to be treated as a beneficiary for determining the distribution period.
For the exception to this rule, see Death of surviving
spouse prior to date distributions begin, later.
Death of a beneficiary. In general, the beneficiaries of a
deceased beneficiary must continue to take the required
minimum distributions after the deceased beneficiary’s
death, based on the distribution schedule established by
that beneficiary under the rules in the following paragraphs. The beneficiaries of a deceased beneficiary do
not calculate required minimum distributions using their
own life expectancies.
For the exception to this rule, see Death of surviving
spouse prior to date distributions begin, later.
More than one beneficiary. If an IRA has more than one
beneficiary or a trust is named as beneficiary, see Miscellaneous Rules for Required Minimum Distributions, later.

Owner Died On or After Required Beginning
Date
If the owner died on or after his or her required beginning
date (defined earlier), and you are the designated beneficiary, you must base required minimum distributions for
years after the year of the owner's death on the longer of:
Your single life expectancy shown on Table I in Appendix C as determined under Beneficiary an individual, later, or
The owner's life expectancy as determined under
Death on or after required beginning date, under Beneficiary not an individual, later.
Surviving spouse is sole designated beneficiary. If
the owner died on or after his or her required beginning
date and his or her spouse is the sole designated beneficiary, the life expectancy the spouse must use to figure
his or her required minimum distribution may change in a
future distribution year. This change will apply where the
spouse is older than the deceased owner or the spouse
treats the IRA as his or her own.

Owner Died Before Required Beginning
Date
If the owner died before his or her required beginning date
(defined earlier), and you are the designated beneficiary,
you generally must base required minimum distributions
for years after the year of the owner's death using your
single life expectancy shown on Table I in Appendix C as
determined under Beneficiary an individual, later.
See 5­year rule, later, for situations where an individual
designated beneficiary may be required to take the entire
account by the end of the fifth year following the year of
the owner's death.
If the owner's beneficiary is not an individual (for example, if the beneficiary is the owner's estate), the 5-year rule
(discussed later) applies.
Special rules for surviving spouse. If the owner died
before his or her required beginning date and the surviving spouse is the sole designated beneficiary, the following rules apply.
Year of first required distribution. If the owner died
before the year in which he or she reached age 701 2, distributions to the spouse do not need to begin until the year
in which the owner would have reached age 701 2.
Death of surviving spouse prior to date distributions begin. If the surviving spouse dies before December 31 of the year he or she must begin receiving required
minimum distributions, the surviving spouse will be treated
as if he or she were the owner of the IRA.
This rule does not apply to the surviving spouse of a
surviving spouse.
Example 1. Your spouse died in 2011, at age 651 2.
You are the sole designated beneficiary of your spouse’s
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 37

traditional IRA. You do not need to take any required minimum distribution until December 31 of 2016, the year your
spouse would have reached age 701 2. If you die prior to
that date, you will be treated as the owner of the IRA for
purposes of determining the required distributions to your
beneficiaries. For example, if you die in 2013, your beneficiaries will not have any required minimum distribution for
2013 (because you, treated as the owner, died prior to
your required beginning date). They must start taking distributions under the general rules for an owner who died
prior to the required beginning date.
Example 2. Same as Example 1, except your sole
beneficiary upon your death in 2013 is your surviving
spouse. Your surviving spouse cannot wait until the year
you would have turned 701 2 to take distributions using his
or her life expectancy. Also, if your surviving spouse dies
prior to the date he or she is required to take a distribution,
he or she is not treated as the owner of the account. Just
like any other individual beneficiary of an owner who dies
before the required beginning date, your surviving spouse
must start taking distributions in 2014 based on his or her
life expectancy (or elect to fully distribute the account under the 5-year rule by the end of 2018).
5­year rule. The 5-year rule requires the IRA beneficiaries to withdraw 100% of the IRA by December 31 of the
year containing the fifth anniversary of the owner’s death.
For example, if the owner died in 2013, the beneficiary
would have to fully distribute the plan by December 31,
2018. The beneficiary is allowed, but not required, to take
distributions prior to that date. The 5-year rule never applies if the owner died on or after his or her required beginning date.
Individual designated beneficiaries. The terms of
most IRA plans require individual designated beneficiaries
to take required minimum distributions using the life expectancy rules (explained earlier) unless such beneficiaries elect to take distributions using the 5-year rule. The
deadline for making this election is December 31 of the
year the beneficiary must take the first required distribution using his or her life expectancy (or December 31 of
the year containing the fifth anniversary of the owner's
death, if earlier).
Beneficiary not an individual. The 5-year rule applies in all cases where there is no individual designated
beneficiary by September 30 of the year following the year
of the owner’s death or where any beneficiary is not an individual (for example, the owner named his or her estate
as the beneficiary).

TIP

Review the IRA plan documents or consult with
the IRA custodian or trustee for specifics on the
5­year rule provisions of any particular plan.

If the 5­year rule applies, the amount remaining in
the IRA, if any, after December 31 of the year
CAUTION
containing the fifth anniversary of the owner's
death is subject to the 50% excise tax detailed in Excess
Accumulations (Insufficient Distributions), later.

!

Page 38

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Figuring the Beneficiary's Required
Minimum Distribution
How you figure the required minimum distribution depends on whether the beneficiary is an individual or some
other entity, such as a trust or estate.
Beneficiary an individual. If the beneficiary is an individual, to figure the required minimum distribution for
2014, divide the account balance at the end of 2013 by
the appropriate life expectancy from Table I (Single Life
Expectancy) in Appendix C. Determine the appropriate life
expectancy as follows.
Spouse as sole designated beneficiary. Use the life
expectancy listed in the table next to the spouse's age (as
of the spouse's birthday in 2014). Use this life expectancy
even if the spouse died in 2014.
If the spouse died in 2013 or a prior year, use the life
expectancy listed in the table next to the spouse’s age as
of his or her birthday in the year he or she died. Reduce
the life expectancy by one for each year since the year following the spouse’s death.
You cannot make a rollover contribution of your
required minimum distributions in years after the
CAUTION
owner's death. Such contribution is subject to the
6% tax on excess contributions, as discussed in Rollover
of required distributions not allowed, earlier.

!

Other designated beneficiary. Use the life expectancy listed in the table next to the beneficiary's age as of
his or her birthday in the year following the year of the
owner's death. Reduce the life expectancy by one for
each year since the year following the owner's death. As
discussed in Death of a beneficiary, earlier, if the designated beneficiary dies before his or her portion of the account is fully distributed, continue to use the designated
beneficiary's remaining life expectancy to determine the
distribution period; do not use the life expectancy of any
subsequent beneficiary.
Example. Your father died in 2013. You are the designated beneficiary of your father's traditional IRA. You are
53 years old in 2014, which is the year following your father's death. You use Table I and see that your life expectancy in 2014 is 31.4. If the IRA was worth $100,000 at the
end of 2013, your required minimum distribution for 2014
would be $3,185 ($100,000 ÷ 31.4). If the value of the IRA
at the end of 2014 was again $100,000, your required
minimum distribution for 2015 would be $3,289 ($100,000
÷ 30.4 (31.4 reduced by 1, which is the number of years
following the year after your father's death in 2013)).
Beneficiary not an individual. If the beneficiary is not
an individual, determine the required minimum distribution
for 2014 as follows.
Death on or after required beginning date. Divide
the account balance at the end of 2013 by the appropriate
life expectancy from Table I (Single Life Expectancy) in
Appendix C. Use the life expectancy listed next to the
owner's age as of his or her birthday in the year of death.

Reduce the life expectancy by one for each year after the
year of death. (Note. Also figure the required minimum
distribution for an individual beneficiary using this method
if it results in a longer life expectancy where the owner
died on or after the required beginning date.)
Death before required beginning date. The 5-year
rule (discussed earlier) applies. The entire account must
be distributed by the end of the fifth year following the year
of the owner's death. No distribution is required for any
year before that fifth year.
Note. The required beginning date was defined earlier
under Distributions by the required beginning date.
Example. The owner died in 2013 at the age of 80.
The owner's traditional IRA went to his estate. The account balance at the end of 2013 was $100,000. In 2014,
the required minimum distribution would be $10,870
($100,000 ÷ 9.2). (The owner's life expectancy in the year
of death, 10.2, reduced by one.) If the owner had died in
2013 at the age of 70, the entire account would have to be
distributed by the end of 2018. See Death before required
beginning date under Beneficiary not an individual above.

Which Table Do You Use
To Determine Your
Required Minimum Distribution?
There are three different life expectancy tables. The tables are found in Appendix C of this publication. You use
only one of them to determine your required minimum distribution for each traditional IRA. Determine which one to
use as follows.
Reminder. In using the tables for lifetime distributions,
marital status is determined as of January 1 each year. Divorce or death after January 1 is generally disregarded
until the next year. However, if you divorce and change
the beneficiary designation in the same year, your former
spouse cannot be considered your sole beneficiary for
that year.
Table I (Single Life Expectancy). Use Table I for years
after the year of the owner's death if either of the following
applies.
You are an individual and a designated beneficiary,
but not the owner's surviving spouse and sole designated beneficiary.
The beneficiary is not an individual and the owner died
on or after the required beginning date, defined earlier.
Surviving spouse. If you are the owner's surviving
spouse and sole designated beneficiary, you will also use
Table I for your required minimum distributions. However,
if the owner had not reached age 701 2 when he or she
died, and you do not elect to be treated as the owner of
the IRA, you do not have to take distributions until the year
in which the owner would have reached age 701 2.

Table II (Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy).
Use Table II if you are the IRA owner and your spouse is
both your sole designated beneficiary and more than 10
years younger than you.
Note. Use this table in the year of the owner's death if
the owner died after the required beginning date and this
is the table that would have been used had he or she not
died.
Table III (Uniform Lifetime). Use Table III if you are the
IRA owner and your spouse is not both the sole designated beneficiary of your IRA and more than 10 years
younger than you.
Note. Use this table in the year of the owner's death if
the owner died after the required beginning date and this
is the table that would have been used had he or she not
died.
No table. Do not use any of the tables if the 5-year rule
(discussed earlier) applies.

What Age(s) Do You Use With the
Table(s)?
The age or ages to use with each table are explained below.
Table I (Single Life Expectancy). If you are a designated beneficiary figuring your first distribution, use your age
as of your birthday in the year distributions must begin.
This is usually the calendar year immediately following the
calendar year of the owner's death. After the first distribution year, reduce your life expectancy by one for each
subsequent year. If you are the owner's surviving spouse
and the sole designated beneficiary, this is generally the
year in which the owner would have reached age 701 2. After the first distribution year, use your age as of your birthday in each subsequent year.
Example 1. You are the owner's designated beneficiary figuring your first required minimum distribution. Distributions must begin in 2014. You become 57 years old in
2014. You use Table I. Your distribution period for 2015 is
26.9 (27.9 − 1) years. Your distribution period for 2016 is
25.9 (27.9 − 2). Note that the life expectancy was reduced
by one for each year after the first distribution year, which
was 2014.
Example 2. You are the owner's surviving spouse and
the sole designated beneficiary. The owner would have
turned age 701 2 in 2014. Distributions begin in 2014. You
become 69 years old in 2014. You use Table 1. Your distribution period for 2014 is 17.8. For 2015, when you are
70 years old, your distribution period is 17.0. For 2016,
when you are 71 years old, your distribution period is
16.3.
Owner's life expectancy. In two cases where the
owner dies on or after the required beginning date, you
need to use the owner's life expectancy. First, you need to
use it when the owner dies on or after the required
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 39

beginning date and there is no designated beneficiary as
of September 30 of the year following the year of the owner's death. In this case, use the owner's life expectancy for
his or her age as of the owner's birthday in the year of
death and reduce it by one for each subsequent year.
Second, use the owner’s life expectancy in the year of
death (reduced by one for each subsequent year) if it results in a longer distribution period than using your life expectancy as detailed in Table I (Single Life Expectancy)
above.
Table II (Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy).
For your first distribution by the required beginning date,
use your age and the age of your designated beneficiary
as of your birthdays in the year you become age 701 2.
Your combined life expectancy is at the intersection of
your ages.
If you are figuring your required minimum distribution
for 2014, use your ages as of your birthdays in 2014. For
each subsequent year, use your and your spouse's ages
as of your birthdays in the subsequent year.
Table III (Uniform Lifetime). For your first distribution by
your required beginning date, use your age as of your
birthday in the year you become age 701 2.
If you are figuring your required minimum distribution
for 2014, use your age as of your birthday in 2014. For
each subsequent year, use your age as of your birthday in
the subsequent year.

Miscellaneous Rules for
Required Minimum Distributions
The following rules may apply to you.
Installments allowed. The yearly required minimum distribution can be taken in a series of installments (monthly,
quarterly, etc.) as long as the total distributions for the
year are at least as much as the minimum required
amount.
More than one IRA. If you have more than one traditional IRA, you must determine a separate required minimum distribution for each IRA. However, you can total
these minimum amounts and take the total from any one
or more of the IRAs.
Example. Sara, born August 1, 1942, became 701 2 on
February 1, 2013. She has two traditional IRAs. She must
begin receiving her IRA distributions by April 1, 2014. On
December 31, 2012, Sara's account balance from IRA A
was $10,000; her account balance from IRA B was
$20,000. Sara's brother, age 64 as of his birthday in 2013,
is the beneficiary of IRA A. Her husband, age 78 as of his
birthday in 2013, is the beneficiary of IRA B.
Sara's required minimum distribution from IRA A is
$377 ($10,000 ÷ 26.5 (the distribution period for age 71
per Table III)). The amount of the required minimum distribution from IRA B is $755 ($20,000 ÷ 26.5). The amount
that must be withdrawn by Sara from her IRA accounts by
April 1, 2014, is $1,132 ($377 + $755).
Page 40

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

More than minimum received. If, in any year, you receive more than the required minimum amount for that
year, you will not receive credit for the additional amount
when determining the minimum required amounts for future years. This does not mean that you do not reduce
your IRA account balance. It means that if you receive
more than your required minimum distribution in one year,
you cannot treat the excess (the amount that is more than
the required minimum distribution) as part of your required
minimum distribution for any later year. However, any
amount distributed in your 701 2 year will be credited toward the amount that must be distributed by April 1 of the
following year.
Example. Justin became 701 2 on December 15, 2013.
Justin's IRA account balance on December 31, 2012, was
$38,400. He figured his required minimum distribution for
2013 was $1,401 ($38,400 ÷ 27.4 (the distribution period
for age 70 per Table III)). By December 31, 2013, he had
actually received distributions totaling $3,600, $2,199
more than was required. Justin cannot use that $2,199 to
reduce the amount he is required to withdraw for 2014,
but his IRA account balance is reduced by the full $3,600
to figure his required minimum distribution for 2014. Justin's reduced IRA account balance on December 31,
2013, was $34,800. Justin figured his required minimum
distribution for 2014 is $1,313 ($34,800 ÷ 26.5 (the distribution period for age 71 per Table III)). During 2014, he
must receive distributions of at least that amount.
Multiple individual beneficiaries. If as of September 30
of the year following the year in which the owner dies
there is more than one beneficiary, the beneficiary with
the shortest life expectancy will be the designated beneficiary if both of the following apply.
All of the beneficiaries are individuals, and
The account or benefit has not been divided into separate accounts or shares for each beneficiary.
Separate accounts. A single IRA can be split into
separate accounts or shares for each beneficiary. These
separate accounts or shares can be established at any
time, either before or after the owner's required beginning
date. Generally, these separate accounts or shares are
combined for purposes of determining the minimum required distribution. However, these separate accounts or
shares will not be combined for required minimum distribution purposes after the death of the IRA owner if the
separate accounts or shares are established by the end of
the year following the year of the IRA owner's death.
The separate account rules cannot be used by beneficiaries of a trust.
Trust as beneficiary. A trust cannot be a designated
beneficiary even if it is a named beneficiary. However, the
beneficiaries of a trust will be treated as having been designated beneficiaries for purposes of determining required
minimum distributions after the owner’s death (or after the
death of the owner’s surviving spouse described in Death
of surviving spouse prior to date distributions begin, earlier) if all of the following are true:

1. The trust is a valid trust under state law, or would be
but for the fact that there is no corpus.

The return of nondeductible contributions, discussed
later under Distributions Fully or Partly Taxable.

2. The trust is irrevocable or became, by its terms, irrevocable upon the owner's death.

Although a conversion of a traditional IRA is considered a rollover for Roth IRA purposes, it is not
CAUTION
an exception to the rule that distributions from a
traditional IRA are taxable in the year you receive them.
Conversion distributions are includible in your gross income subject to this rule and the special rules for conversions explained earlier and in chapter 2.

3. The beneficiaries of the trust who are beneficiaries
with respect to the trust's interest in the owner's benefit are identifiable from the trust instrument.
4. The trustee of the trust provides the IRA custodian or
trustee with the documentation required by that custodian or trustee. The trustee of the trust should contact
the IRA custodian or trustee for details on the documentation required for a specific plan.
The deadline for the trustee to provide the beneficiary
documentation to the IRA custodian or trustee is October
31 of the year following the year of the owner's death.
Trust beneficiary is another trust. If the beneficiary
of the trust (which is the beneficiary of the IRA) is another
trust and both trusts meet the above requirements, the
beneficiaries of the other trust will be treated as having
been designated as beneficiaries for purposes of determining the distribution period.
Note. The separate account rules, discussed earlier,
cannot be used by beneficiaries of a trust.

TIP

You may want to contact a tax advisor to comply
with this complicated area of the tax law.

Annuity distributions from an insurance company.
Special rules apply if you receive distributions from your
traditional IRA as an annuity purchased from an insurance
company. See Regulations sections 1.401(a)(9)-6 and
54.4974-2. These regulations can be found in many libraries, IRS offices, and online at IRS.gov.

Are Distributions Taxable?
In general, distributions from a traditional IRA are taxable
in the year you receive them.
Failed financial institutions. Distributions from a traditional IRA are taxable in the year you receive them even if
they are made without your consent by a state agency as
receiver of an insolvent savings institution. This means
you must include such distributions in your gross income
unless you roll them over. For an exception to the 1-year
waiting period rule for rollovers of certain distributions
from failed financial institutions, see Exception under Rollover From One IRA Into Another, earlier.
Exceptions. Exceptions to distributions from traditional
IRAs being taxable in the year you receive them are:
Rollovers, earlier,
Qualified charitable distributions, discussed below,
Tax-free withdrawals of contributions, discussed earlier, and

!

Qualified charitable distributions. A qualified charitable distribution (QCD) is generally a nontaxable distribution made directly by the trustee of your IRA (other than a
SEP or SIMPLE IRA) to an organization eligible to receive
tax-deductible contributions. You must be at least age 70
1
2 when the distribution was made. Also, you must have
the same type of acknowledgment of your contribution
that you would need to claim a deduction for a charitable
contribution. See Records To Keep in Publication 526,
Charitable Contributions.
The maximum annual exclusion for QCDs is $100,000.
Any QCD in excess of the $100,000 exclusion limit is included in income as any other distribution. If you file a joint
return, your spouse can also have a QCD and exclude up
to $100,000. The amount of the QCD is limited to the
amount of the distribution that would otherwise be included in income. If your IRA includes nondeductible contributions, the distribution is first considered to be paid out of
otherwise taxable income.

TIP

!

A QCD will count towards your required minimum
distribution, discussed earlier.
You cannot claim a charitable contribution deduction for any QCD not included in your income.

CAUTION

Example. On November 1, 2013, Jeff, age 75, directed the trustee of his IRA to make a distribution of $25,000
directly to a qualified 501(c)(3) organization (a charitable
organization eligible to receive tax-deductible contributions). The total value of Jeff’s IRA is $30,000 and consists $20,000 of deductible contributions and earnings
and $10,000 of nondeductible contributions (basis). Since
Jeff is at least age 701 2 and the distribution is made directly by the trustee to a qualified organization, the part of
the distribution that would otherwise be includible in Jeff’s
income ($20,000) is a QCD.
In this case, Jeff has made a QCD of $20,000 (his deductible contributions and earnings). Because Jeff made a
distribution of nondeductible contributions from his IRA,
he must file Form 8606, Nondeductible IRAs, with his return. Jeff includes the total distribution ($25,000) on
line 15a of Form 1040. He completes Form 8606 to determine the amount to enter on line 15b of Form 1040 and
the remaining basis in his IRA. Jeff enters -0- on line 15b.
This is Jeff’s only IRA and he took no other distributions in
2013. He also enters “QCD” next to line 15b to indicate a
qualified charitable distribution.
After the distribution, his basis in his IRA is $5,000. If
Jeff itemizes deductions and files Schedule A with Form
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 41

1040, the $5,000 portion of the distribution attributable to
the nondeductible contributions can be deducted as a
charitable contribution, subject to AGI limits. He cannot
take charitable contribution deduction for the $20,000 portion of the distribution that was not included in his income.
January 2013 QCDs treated as made in 2012. If
you made a QCD in January 2013, you could have elected to have it treated as made in 2012. If you made this
election, the full amount of the QCD counted towards your
2012 required minimum distribution and does not count
towards your 2013 required minimum distribution. Even if
you made this election, you must report the QCD on your
2013 tax return, as discussed below.
2013 Reporting. If you made a QCD in 2013, include
the full amount of the QCD on your 2013 Form 1040,
line 15a; Form 1040A, line 11a; or Form 1040NR,
line 16a. Any amount over the $100,000 limit must be included on your 2013 Form 1040, line 15b; Form 1040A,
line 11b; or Form 1040NR, line 16b. Be sure to enter
“QCD” next to 2013 Form 1040, line 15b; Form 1040A,
line 11b; or Form 1040NR, line 16b.
Additional reporting requirements if you made the
election to treat a January 2013 QCD as made in
2012. If you made a QCD in January 2013 and you elected to treat it as made in 2012, this amount will be reported to you on a 2013 Form 1099-R in 2014. You will need
to include this amount with any other 2013 distributions on
your 2013 Form 1040, line 15a; Form 1040A, line 11a; or
Form 1040NR, line 16a, even though you already reported
it on your 2012 tax return. Report this amount on your
2013 tax return even if it is the only IRA distribution that
you are reporting. See 2013 Reporting above and follow
the reporting instructions there and in your 2013 tax return.
If the total of your QCDs made in 2013, including your
January QCD that you elected to treat as made in 2012,
exceeds $100,000, attach a statement to your return listing your QCDs for 2012 and 2013. If you are married filing
a joint return, the $100,000 limit applies separately to
each of you.
If you are required to file a 2013 Form 5329 because
you failed to take your total required minimum distributions for 2013, do not include the amount of the January
QCD that you elected to treat as made in 2012 on Form
5329, line 51.
Example. Victor has only one IRA with a total value of
$250,000 as of December 31, 2012. It consists of deductible contributions and earnings, therefore he does not
have to fill out a Form 8606.
On January 15, 2013, Victor, age 77, directed the
trustee of his IRA to make a distribution of $25,000 directly to a qualified 501(c)(3) organization (a charitable organization eligible to receive tax-deductible contributions).
This transaction meets the requirements to be considered
a QCD, see discussion earlier. He elected to treat this
QCD as if it was made in 2012. He reported this amount
on his 2012 Form 1040, line 15a. The full amount of this
QCD would count towards his 2012 required minimum
Page 42

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

distribution but would not count towards his 2013 required
minimum distribution given his election.
On November 29, 2013, Victor directs the trustee of the
same IRA above to make another distribution of $25,000
directly to the same organization. This qualifies as a QCD.
This amount would count towards his 2013 required minimum distribution.
On January 30, 2014, he receives his 2013 Form
1099-R reporting a total distribution of $50,000 for his
QCDs. The QCDs were the only distributions made from
his IRA in 2013. When he fills out his 2013 Form 1040, he
will enter $50,000 on line 15a, and -0- on line 15b and
“QCD” next to that line.
One­time qualified HSA funding distribution. You
may be able to make a qualified HSA funding distribution
from your traditional IRA or Roth IRA to your Health Savings Account (HSA). You cannot make this distribution
from an ongoing SEP IRA or SIMPLE IRA. For this purpose, a SEP IRA or SIMPLE IRA is ongoing if an employer
contribution is made for the plan year ending with or within
your tax year in which the distribution would be made. The
distribution must be less than or equal to your maximum
annual HSA contribution.
This distribution must be made directly by the trustee of
the IRA to the trustee of the HSA. The distribution is not
included in your income, is not deductible, and reduces
the amount that can be contributed to your HSA. You must
make the distribution by the end of the year; the special
rule allowing contributions to your HSA for the previous
year if made by your tax return filing deadline does not apply. The qualified HSA funding distribution is reported on
Form 8889, Health Savings Accounts, for the year in
which the distribution is made.
One-time transfer. Generally, only one qualified HSA
funding distribution is allowed during your lifetime. If you
own two or more IRAs, and want to use amounts in multiple IRAs to make a qualified HSA funding distribution, you
must first make an IRA-to-IRA transfer of the amounts to
be distributed into a single IRA, and then make the
one-time qualified HSA funding distribution from that IRA.
Testing period rules apply. If at any time during the
testing period you cease to meet all requirements to be an
eligible individual, the amount of the qualified HSA funding
distribution is included in your gross income. The qualified
HSA funding distribution is included in gross income in the
taxable year you first fail to be an eligible individual. This
amount is subject to the 10 percent additional tax (unless
the failure is due to disability or death).
More information. See Publication 969, Health Savings Accounts and Other Tax-Favored Health Plans, for
additional information about this distribution.
Ordinary income. Distributions from traditional IRAs that
you include in income are taxed as ordinary income.
No special treatment. In figuring your tax, you cannot
use the 10-year tax option or capital gain treatment that
applies to lump-sum distributions from qualified retirement
plans.

Distributions Fully or Partly Taxable
Distributions from your traditional IRA may be fully or
partly taxable, depending on whether your IRA includes
any nondeductible contributions.
Fully taxable. If only deductible contributions were made
to your traditional IRA (or IRAs, if you have more than
one), you have no basis in your IRA. Because you have
no basis in your IRA, any distributions are fully taxable
when received. See Reporting and Withholding Requirements for Taxable Amounts, later.
Partly taxable. If you made nondeductible contributions
or rolled over any after-tax amounts to any of your traditional IRAs, you have a cost basis (investment in the contract) equal to the amount of those contributions. These
nondeductible contributions are not taxed when they are
distributed to you. They are a return of your investment in
your IRA.
Only the part of the distribution that represents nondeductible contributions and rolled over after-tax amounts
(your cost basis) is tax free. If nondeductible contributions
have been made or after-tax amounts have been rolled
over to your IRA, distributions consist partly of nondeductible contributions (basis) and partly of deductible contributions, earnings, and gains (if there are any). Until all of
your basis has been distributed, each distribution is partly
nontaxable and partly taxable.
Form 8606. You must complete Form 8606, and attach it
to your return, if you receive a distribution from a traditional IRA and have ever made nondeductible contributions or rolled over after-tax amounts to any of your traditional IRAs. Using the form, you will figure the nontaxable
distributions for 2013, and your total IRA basis for 2013
and earlier years. See the illustrated Forms 8606 in this
chapter.
Note. If you are required to file Form 8606, but you are
not required to file an income tax return, you still must file
Form 8606. Complete Form 8606, sign it, and send it to
the IRS at the time and place you would otherwise file an
income tax return.

Figuring the Nontaxable
and Taxable Amounts
If your traditional IRA includes nondeductible contributions
and you received a distribution from it in 2013, you must
use Form 8606 to figure how much of your 2013 IRA distribution is tax free.
Note. When figuring the nontaxable and taxable
amounts of distributions made prior to death in the year
the IRA account owner dies, the value of all traditional (including SEP) and SIMPLE IRAs should be figured as of
the date of death instead of December 31.
Contribution and distribution in the same year. If you
received a distribution in 2013 from a traditional IRA and
you also made contributions to a traditional IRA for 2013

that may not be fully deductible because of the income
limits, you can use Worksheet 1-5 to figure how much of
your 2013 IRA distribution is tax free and how much is taxable. Then you can figure the amount of nondeductible
contributions to report on Form 8606. Follow the instructions under Reporting your nontaxable distribution on
Form 8606, next, to figure your remaining basis after the
distribution.
Reporting your nontaxable distribution on Form
8606. To report your nontaxable distribution and to figure
the remaining basis in your traditional IRA after distributions, you must complete Worksheet 1-5 before completing Form 8606. Then follow these steps to complete Form
8606.
1. Use Worksheet 1-2, earlier, or the IRA Deduction
Worksheet in the Form 1040, 1040A, or 1040NR instructions to figure your deductible contributions to
traditional IRAs to report on Form 1040, line 32; Form
1040A, line 17; or Form 1040NR, line 32.
2. After you complete Worksheet 1-2 or the IRA deduction worksheet in the form instructions, enter your
nondeductible contributions to traditional IRAs on
line 1 of Form 8606.
3. Complete lines 2 through 5 of Form 8606.
4. If line 5 of Form 8606 is less than line 8 of Worksheet
1-5, complete lines 6 through 15 of Form 8606 and
stop here.
5. If line 5 of Form 8606 is equal to or greater than line 8
of Worksheet 1-5, follow instructions 6 and 7, next. Do
not complete lines 6 through 12 of Form 8606.
6. Enter the amount from line 8 of Worksheet 1-5 on
lines 13 and 17 of Form 8606.
7. Complete line 14 of Form 8606.
8. Enter the amount from line 9 of Worksheet 1-5 (or, if
you entered an amount on line 11, the amount from
that line) on line 15 of Form 8606.
Example. Rose Green has made the following contributions to her traditional IRAs.
Year
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
Totals

Deductible
2,000
2,000
2,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
700
$9,700

Nondeductible
-0-0-0-0-0-0300
$300

Rose needs to complete Worksheet 1–5. Figuring the
Taxable Part of Your IRA Distribution to determine if her
IRA deduction for 2013 will be reduced or eliminated. In
2013, she makes a $2,000 contribution that may be partly
nondeductible. She also receives a distribution of $5,000
for conversion to a Roth IRA. She completed the conversion before December 31, 2013, and did not
recharacterize any contributions. At the end of 2013, the
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 43

fair market values of her accounts, including earnings, total $20,000. She did not receive any tax-free distributions
in earlier years. The amount she includes in income for
2013 is figured on Worksheet 1-5. Figuring the Taxable
Part of Your IRA Distribution—Illustrated.
The illustrated Form 8606 for Rose shows the information required when you need to use Worksheet 1-5 to figure your nontaxable distribution. Assume that the $500

entered on Form 8606, line 1, is the amount Rose figured
using instructions 1 and 2 given earlier under Reporting
your nontaxable distribution on Form 8606.

Worksheet 1-5. Figuring the Taxable Part of Your IRA
Distribution

Keep for Your Records

Use only if you made contributions to a traditional IRA for 2013 that may not be fully deductible and have to figure the
taxable part of your 2013 distributions to determine your modified AGI. See Limit if Covered by Employer Plan, earlier.
Form 8606 and the related instructions will be needed when using this worksheet.
Note. When used in this worksheet, the term outstanding rollover refers to an amount distributed from a traditional IRA
as part of a rollover that, as of December 31, 2013, had not yet been reinvested in another traditional IRA, but was still
eligible to be rolled over tax free.
1. Enter the basis in your traditional IRAs as of December 31, 2012

...................

1.

2. Enter the total of all contributions made to your traditional IRAs during 2013 and all
contributions made during 2014 that were for 2013, whether or not deductible. Do
not include rollover contributions properly rolled over into IRAs. Also, do not include
certain returned contributions described in the instructions for line 7, Part I, of Form
8606. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3. Add lines 1 and 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4. Enter the value of all your traditional IRAs as of December 31, 2013 (include any
outstanding rollovers from traditional IRAs to other traditional IRAs). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5. Enter the total distributions from traditional IRAs (including amounts converted to Roth
IRAs that will be shown on line 16 of Form 8606) received in 2013. (Do not include
outstanding rollovers included on line 4 or any rollovers between traditional IRAs
completed by December 31, 2013. Also, do not include certain returned contributions
described in the instructions for line 7, Part I, of Form 8606.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6. Add lines 4 and 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

7. Divide line 3 by line 6. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places).
If the result is 1.000 or more, enter 1.000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

8. Nontaxable portion of the distribution.
Multiply line 5 by line 7. Enter the result here and on lines 13 and 17 of Form
8606 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

9. Taxable portion of the distribution (before adjustment for conversions).
Subtract line 8 from line 5. Enter the result here and if there are no amounts converted
to Roth IRAs, stop here and enter the result on line 15 of Form 8606 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

10. Enter the amount included on line 9 that is allocable to amounts converted to Roth
IRAs by December 31, 2013. (See Note at the end of this worksheet.) Enter here and
on line 18 of Form 8606 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10.

11. Taxable portion of the distribution (after adjustments for conversions).
Subtract line 10 from line 9. Enter the result here and on line 15 of Form 8606 . . . . . . . .

11.

Note. If the amount on line 5 of this worksheet includes an amount converted to a Roth IRA by December 31, 2013, you must
determine the percentage of the distribution allocable to the conversion. To figure the percentage, divide the amount converted
(from line 16 of Form 8606) by the total distributions shown on line 5. To figure the amounts to include on line 10 of this worksheet
and on line 18, Part II of Form 8606, multiply line 9 of the worksheet by the percentage you figured.

Page 44

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Worksheet 1-5. Figuring the Taxable Part of Your IRA Distribution—Illustrated
Use only if you made contributions to a traditional IRA for 2013 that may not be fully deductible and have to figure the
taxable part of your 2013 distributions to determine your modified AGI. See Limit if Covered by Employer Plan, earlier.
Form 8606 and the related instructions will be needed when using this worksheet.
Note. When used in this worksheet, the term outstanding rollover refers to an amount distributed from a traditional IRA
as part of a rollover that, as of December 31, 2013, had not yet been reinvested in another traditional IRA, but was still
eligible to be rolled over tax free.
1. Enter the basis in your traditional IRAs as of December 31, 2012

.......................

1.

300

2. Enter the total of all contributions made to your traditional IRAs during 2013 and all
contributions made during 2014 that were for 2013, whether or not deductible. Do not
include rollover contributions properly rolled over into IRAs. Also, do not include certain
returned contributions described in the instructions for line 7, Part I, of Form 8606. . . . . . . . .

2.

2,000

3. Add lines 1 and 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

2,300

4. Enter the value of all your traditional IRAs as of December 31, 2013 (include any
outstanding rollovers from traditional IRAs to other traditional IRAs) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

20,000

5. Enter the total distributions from traditional IRAs (including amounts converted to Roth
IRAs that will be shown on line 16 of Form 8606) received in 2013. (Do not include
outstanding rollovers included on line 4 or any rollovers between traditional IRAs
completed by December 31, 2013. Also, do not include certain returned contributions
described in the instructions for line 7, Part I, of Form 8606.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

5,000

6. Add lines 4 and 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

25,000

7. Divide line 3 by line 6. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places).
If the result is 1.000 or more, enter 1.000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

.092

8. Nontaxable portion of the distribution.
Multiply line 5 by line 7. Enter the result here and on lines 13 and 17 of Form 8606 . . . . . . . .

8.

460

9. Taxable portion of the distribution (before adjustment for conversions).
Subtract line 8 from line 5. Enter the result here and if there are no amounts converted to
Roth IRAs, stop here and enter the result on line 15 of Form 8606 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

4,540

10. Enter the amount included on line 9 that is allocable to amounts converted to Roth IRAs by
December 31, 2013. (See Note at the end of this worksheet.) Enter here and on line 18 of
Form 8606 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.

4,540

11. Taxable portion of the distribution (after adjustments for conversions).
Subtract line 10 from line 9. Enter the result here and on line 15 of Form 8606 . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.

0

Note. If the amount on line 5 of this worksheet includes an amount converted to a Roth IRA by December 31, 2013, you must
determine the percentage of the distribution allocable to the conversion. To figure the percentage, divide the amount converted
(from line 16 of Form 8606) by the total distributions shown on line 5. To figure the amounts to include on line 10 of this worksheet
and on line 18, Part II of Form 8606, multiply line 9 of the worksheet by the percentage you figured.

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 45

Form

8606

Nondeductible IRAs

OMB No. 1545-0074

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service (99)

▶ Attach to Form 1040, Form 1040A, or Form 1040NR.

Attachment
Sequence No. 48
Your social security number

Name. If married, file a separate form for each spouse required to file Form 8606. See instructions.

001-00-0000

Fill in Your Address Only
If You Are Filing This
Form by Itself and Not
With Your Tax Return

▲

Rose Green

Part I

2013

▶ Information about Form 8606 and its separate instructions is at www.irs.gov/form8606.

Home address (number and street, or P.O. box if mail is not delivered to your home)

Apt. no.

City, town or post office, state, and ZIP code. If you have a foreign address, also complete the spaces below (see instructions).

Foreign country name

Foreign province/state/county

Foreign postal code

Nondeductible Contributions to Traditional IRAs and Distributions From Traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs
Complete this part only if one or more of the following apply.
• You made nondeductible contributions to a traditional IRA for 2013.
• You took distributions from a traditional, SEP, or SIMPLE IRA in 2013 and you made nondeductible contributions to a
traditional IRA in 2013 or an earlier year. For this purpose, a distribution does not include a rollover, qualiﬁed charitable
distributions, one-time distribution to fund an HSA, conversion, recharacterization, or return of certain contributions.
• You converted part, but not all, of your traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs to Roth IRAs in 2013 (excluding any portion
you recharacterized) and you made nondeductible contributions to a traditional IRA in 2013 or an earlier year.

1
2
3

4
5
6

Enter your nondeductible contributions to traditional IRAs for 2013, including those made for 2013
from January 1, 2014, through April 15, 2014 (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter your total basis in traditional IRAs (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Add lines 1 and 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No
▶ Enter the amount from line 3 on line 14.
In 2013, did you take a distribution
Do not complete the rest of Part I.
from traditional, SEP, or SIMPLE IRAs,
or make a Roth IRA conversion?
Yes
▶ Go to line 4.
Enter those contributions included on line 1 that were made from January 1, 2014, through April 15, 2014
Subtract line 4 from line 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the value of all your traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs as of
December 31, 2013, plus any outstanding rollovers (see instructions) . .
6

7

Enter your distributions from traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs in
2013. Do not include rollovers, qualified charitable distributions, a onetime distribution to fund an HSA, conversions to a Roth IRA, certain
returned contributions, or recharacterizations of traditional IRA
contributions (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8

Enter the net amount you converted from traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE
IRAs to Roth IRAs in 2013. Do not include amounts converted that you
later recharacterized (see instructions). Also enter this amount on line 16 .
8
Add lines 6, 7, and 8 . . . . . . . .
9
Divide line 5 by line 9. Enter the result as a decimal rounded to at least
×
.
3 places. If the result is 1.000 or more, enter “1.000” . . . . . .
10
Multiply line 8 by line 10. This is the nontaxable portion of the amount
you converted to Roth IRAs. Also enter this amount on line 17 . . .
11
Multiply line 7 by line 10. This is the nontaxable portion of your
distributions that you did not convert to a Roth IRA . . . . . . .
12
Add lines 11 and 12. This is the nontaxable portion of all your distributions . . . . . . . .
Subtract line 13 from line 3. This is your total basis in traditional IRAs for 2013 and earlier years
Taxable amount. Subtract line 12 from line 7. If more than zero, also include this amount on Form
1040, line 15b; Form 1040A, line 11b; or Form 1040NR, line 16b . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note. You may be subject to an additional 10% tax on the amount on line 15 if you were under
age 59½ at the time of the distribution (see instructions).

9
10
11
12
13
14
15

For Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see separate instructions.

* From Worksheet 1-5 in Publication 590

Page 46

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

1
2
3

500
300
800

4
5

0
800

13
14

460*
340

15

0

7

Cat. No. 63966F

Form 8606 (2013)

Page 2

Form 8606 (2013)

Part II

2013 Conversions From Traditional, SEP, or SIMPLE IRAs to Roth IRAs
Complete this part if you converted part or all of your traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs to a Roth IRA in 2013 (excluding
any portion you recharacterized).

16

17
18

If you completed Part I, enter the amount from line 8. Otherwise, enter the net amount you
converted from traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs to Roth IRAs in 2013. Do not include amounts
you later recharacterized back to traditional, SEP, or SIMPLE IRAs in 2013 or 2014 (see instructions)
If you completed Part I, enter the amount from line 11. Otherwise, enter your basis in the amount
on line 16 (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Taxable amount. Subtract line 17 from line 16. Also include this amount on Form 1040, line 15b;
Form 1040A, line 11b; or Form 1040NR, line 16b . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Part III

Distributions From Roth IRAs

16

5,000

17

460

18

4,540*

Complete this part only if you took a distribution from a Roth IRA in 2013. For this purpose, a distribution does not
include a rollover, qualified charitable distributions, a one-time distribution to fund an HSA, recharacterization, or return
of certain contributions (see instructions).
19

Paid
Preparer
Use Only

▲

▲

Enter your total nonqualified distributions from Roth IRAs in 2013, including any qualified first-time
homebuyer distributions (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
19
20
Qualified first-time homebuyer expenses (see instructions). Do not enter more than $10,000 . .
20
21
Subtract line 20 from line 19. If zero or less, enter -0- and skip lines 22 through 25 . . . . . . .
21
22
Enter your basis in Roth IRA contributions (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
22
23
Subtract line 22 from line 21. If zero or less, enter -0- and skip lines 24 and 25. If more than zero,
you may be subject to an additional tax (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23
24
Enter your basis in conversions from traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs and rollovers from
qualified retirement plans to a Roth IRA (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24
25
Taxable amount. Subtract line 24 from line 23. If more than zero, also include this amount on
Form 1040, line 15b; Form 1040A, line 11b; or Form 1040NR, line 16b . . . . . . . . . .
25
Sign Here Only If You Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined this form, including accompanying attachments, and to the best of my knowledge and
belief, it is true, correct, and complete. Declaration of preparer (other than taxpayer) is based on all information of which preparer has any knowledge.
Are Filing This Form
by Itself and Not With
Your Tax Return
Date
Your signature
Print/Type preparer’s name
Firm's name

Preparer’s signature

Date

Check
if PTIN
self-employed
Firm's EIN ▶

▶

Firm's address ▶

Phone no.
Form 8606 (2013)

*From Worksheet 1 - 5 in Publication 590

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 47

Recognizing Losses on Traditional
IRA Investments
If you have a loss on your traditional IRA investment, you
can recognize (include) the loss on your income tax return, but only when all the amounts in all your traditional
IRA accounts have been distributed to you and the total
distributions are less than your unrecovered basis, if any.
Your basis is the total amount of the nondeductible
contributions in your traditional IRAs.
You claim the loss as a miscellaneous itemized deduction, subject to the 2%-of-adjusted-gross-income limit that
applies to certain miscellaneous itemized deductions on
Schedule A (Form 1040). Any such losses are added
back to taxable income for purposes of calculating the alternative minimum tax.

Page 48

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Example. Bill King has made nondeductible contributions to a traditional IRA totaling $2,000, giving him a basis at the end of 2012 of $2,000. By the end of 2013, his
IRA earns $400 in interest income. In that year, Bill receives a distribution of $600 ($500 basis + $100 interest),
reducing the value of his IRA to $1,800 ($2,000 + $400 −
$600) at year's end. Bill figures the taxable part of the distribution and his remaining basis on Form 8606 (illustrated).
In 2014, Bill's IRA has a loss of $500. At the end of that
year, Bill's IRA balance is $1,300 ($1,800 − $500). Bill's
remaining basis in his IRA is $1,500 ($2,000 − $500). Bill
receives the $1,300 balance remaining in the IRA. He can
claim a loss for 2014 of $200 (the $1,500 basis minus the
$1,300 distribution of the IRA balance).

Form

8606

Nondeductible IRAs

OMB No. 1545-0074

2013

▶ Information about Form 8606 and its separate instructions is at www.irs.gov/form8606.

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service (99)

▶ Attach to Form 1040, Form 1040A, or Form 1040NR.

Attachment
Sequence No. 48
Your social security number

Name. If married, file a separate form for each spouse required to file Form 8606. See instructions.

Bill King

002-00-0000

Part I

▲

Fill in Your Address Only
If You Are Filing This
Form by Itself and Not
With Your Tax Return

Home address (number and street, or P.O. box if mail is not delivered to your home)

Apt. no.

City, town or post office, state, and ZIP code. If you have a foreign address, also complete the spaces below (see instructions).

Foreign country name

Foreign province/state/county

Foreign postal code

Nondeductible Contributions to Traditional IRAs and Distributions From Traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs
Complete this part only if one or more of the following apply.
• You made nondeductible contributions to a traditional IRA for 2013.
• You took distributions from a traditional, SEP, or SIMPLE IRA in 2013 and you made nondeductible contributions to a
traditional IRA in 2013 or an earlier year. For this purpose, a distribution does not include a rollover, qualiﬁed charitable
distributions, one-time distribution to fund an HSA, conversion, recharacterization, or return of certain contributions.
• You converted part, but not all, of your traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs to Roth IRAs in 2013 (excluding any portion
you recharacterized) and you made nondeductible contributions to a traditional IRA in 2013 or an earlier year.

1
2
3

4
5
6

Enter your nondeductible contributions to traditional IRAs for 2013, including those made for 2013
from January 1, 2014, through April 15, 2014 (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter your total basis in traditional IRAs (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Add lines 1 and 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No
▶ Enter the amount from line 3 on line 14.
In 2013, did you take a distribution
Do not complete the rest of Part I.
from traditional, SEP, or SIMPLE IRAs,
or make a Roth IRA conversion?
Yes
▶ Go to line 4.
Enter those contributions included on line 1 that were made from January 1, 2014, through April 15, 2014
Subtract line 4 from line 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the value of all your traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs as of
1,800
December 31, 2013, plus any outstanding rollovers (see instructions) . .
6

7

Enter your distributions from traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs in
2013. Do not include rollovers, qualified charitable distributions, a onetime distribution to fund an HSA, conversions to a Roth IRA, certain
returned contributions, or recharacterizations of traditional IRA
contributions (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8

Enter the net amount you converted from traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE
IRAs to Roth IRAs in 2013. Do not include amounts converted that you
later recharacterized (see instructions). Also enter this amount on line 16 .
8
2,400
Add lines 6, 7, and 8 . . . . . . . .
9
Divide line 5 by line 9. Enter the result as a decimal rounded to at least
×
. 833
3 places. If the result is 1.000 or more, enter “1.000” . . . . . .
10
Multiply line 8 by line 10. This is the nontaxable portion of the amount
you converted to Roth IRAs. Also enter this amount on line 17 . . .
11
Multiply line 7 by line 10. This is the nontaxable portion of your
500
distributions that you did not convert to a Roth IRA . . . . . . .
12
Add lines 11 and 12. This is the nontaxable portion of all your distributions . . . . . . . .
Subtract line 13 from line 3. This is your total basis in traditional IRAs for 2013 and earlier years
Taxable amount. Subtract line 12 from line 7. If more than zero, also include this amount on Form
1040, line 15b; Form 1040A, line 11b; or Form 1040NR, line 16b . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note. You may be subject to an additional 10% tax on the amount on line 15 if you were under
age 59½ at the time of the distribution (see instructions).

9
10
11
12
13
14
15

For Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see separate instructions.

7

1
2
3

0
2,000
2,000

4
5

0
2,000

13
14

500
1,500

15

100

600

Cat. No. 63966F

Chapter 1

Form 8606 (2013)

Traditional IRAs

Page 49

Other Special IRA
Distribution Situations
Two other special IRA distribution situations are discussed next.
Distribution of an annuity contract from your IRA account. You can tell the trustee or custodian of your traditional IRA account to use the amount in the account to buy
an annuity contract for you. You are not taxed when you
receive the annuity contract (unless the annuity contract is
being converted to an annuity held by a Roth IRA). You
are taxed when you start receiving payments under that
annuity contract.
Tax treatment. If only deductible contributions were
made to your traditional IRA since it was opened (this includes all your traditional IRAs, if you have more than
one), the annuity payments are fully taxable.
If any of your traditional IRAs include both deductible
and nondeductible contributions, the annuity payments
are taxed as explained earlier under Distributions Fully or
Partly Taxable.
Cashing in retirement bonds. When you cash in retirement bonds, you are taxed on the entire amount you receive. Unless you have already cashed them in, you will
be taxed on the entire value of your bonds in the year in
which you reach age 701 2. The value of the bonds is the
amount you would have received if you had cashed them
in at the end of that year. When you later cash in the
bonds, you will not be taxed again.

Reporting and Withholding
Requirements for Taxable Amounts
If you receive a distribution from your traditional IRA, you
will receive Form 1099-R, or a similar statement. IRA distributions are shown in boxes 1 and 2a of Form 1099-R. A
number or letter code in box 7 tells you what type of distribution you received from your IRA.
Number codes. Some of the number codes are explained below. All of the codes are explained in the instructions for recipients on Form 1099-R.
1—Early distribution, no known exception.
2—Early distribution, exception applies.
3—Disability.
4—Death.
5—Prohibited transaction.
7—Normal distribution.
8—Excess contributions plus earnings/
excess deferrals (and/or earnings)
taxable in 2013.

Page 50

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

If code 1, 5, or 8 appears on your Form 1099­R,
you are probably subject to a penalty or addiCAUTION
tional tax. If code 1 appears, see Early Distributions, later. If code 5 appears, see Prohibited Transactions, later. If code 8 appears, see Excess Contributions,
later.

!

Letter codes. Some of the letter codes are explained
below. All of the codes are explained in the instructions for
recipients on Form 1099-R.
B—Designated Roth account distribution.
G—Direct rollover of a distribution (other than a designated Roth account distribution) to a qualified plan, a
section 403(b) plan, a governmental section 457(b)
plan, or an IRA.
H—Direct rollover of a designated Roth account distribution to a Roth IRA.
J—Early distribution from a Roth IRA.
N—Recharacterized IRA contribution made for 2013
and recharacterized in 2013.
P—Excess contributions plus earnings/
excess deferrals taxable in 2012.
Q—Qualified distribution from a Roth IRA.
R—Recharacterized IRA contribution made for 2012
and recharacterized in 2013.
S—Early distribution from a SIMPLE IRA in the first
2 years, no known exception.
T—Roth IRA distribution, exception applies.
If the distribution shown on Form 1099-R is from your
IRA, SEP IRA, or SIMPLE IRA, the small box in box 7 (labeled IRA/SEP/SIMPLE) should be marked with an “X.”
If code J, P, or S appears on your Form 1099­R,
you are probably subject to a penalty or addiCAUTION
tional tax. If code J appears, see Early Distributions, later. If code P appears, see Excess Contributions,
later. If code S appears, see Additional Tax on Early Distributions in chapter 3.

!

Withholding. Federal income tax is withheld from distributions from traditional IRAs unless you choose not to
have tax withheld.
The amount of tax withheld from an annuity or a similar
periodic payment is based on your marital status and the
number of withholding allowances you claim on your withholding certificate (Form W-4P). If you have not filed a certificate, tax will be withheld as if you are a married individual claiming three withholding allowances.
Generally, tax will be withheld at a 10% rate on nonperiodic distributions.
IRA distributions delivered outside the United
States. In general, if you are a U.S. citizen or resident
alien and your home address is outside the United States
or its possessions, you cannot choose exemption from
withholding on distributions from your traditional IRA.
To choose exemption from withholding, you must certify to the payer under penalties of perjury that you are not

a U.S. citizen, a resident alien of the United States, or a
tax-avoidance expatriate.
Even if this election is made, the payer must withhold
tax at the rates prescribed for nonresident aliens.
More information. For more information on withholding on pensions and annuities, see Pensions and Annuities in chapter 1 of Publication 505, Tax Withholding and
Estimated Tax. For more information on withholding on
nonresident aliens and foreign entities, see Pensions, Annuities, and Alimony under Withholding on Specific Income in Publication 515, Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Entities.
Reporting taxable distributions on your return. Report fully taxable distributions, including early distributions,
on Form 1040, line 15b (no entry is required on line 15a);
Form 1040A, line 11b (no entry is required on line 11a); or
Form 1040NR, line 16b (no entry is required on line 16a).
If only part of the distribution is taxable, enter the total
amount on Form 1040, line 15a; Form 1040A, line 11a; or
Form 1040NR, line 16a, and enter the taxable part on
Form 1040, line 15b; Form 1040A, line 11b; or Form
1040NR, line 16b. You cannot report distributions on
Form 1040EZ or Form 1040NR-EZ.
Estate tax. Generally, the value of an annuity or other
payment receivable by any beneficiary of a decedent's
traditional IRA that represents the part of the purchase
price contributed by the decedent (or by his or her former
employer(s)) must be included in the decedent's gross estate. For more information, see the Instructions for Schedule I, Form 706, United States Estate (and Generation-Skipping Transfer) Tax Return.

What Acts Result in Penalties
or Additional Taxes?
The tax advantages of using traditional IRAs for retirement
savings can be offset by additional taxes and penalties if
you do not follow the rules. There are additions to the regular tax for using your IRA funds in prohibited transactions. There are also additional taxes for the following activities.
Investing in collectibles.
Making excess contributions.
Taking early distributions.
Allowing excess amounts to accumulate (failing to
take required distributions).
There are penalties for overstating the amount of nondeductible contributions and for failure to file Form 8606, if
required.
This chapter discusses those acts that you should
avoid and the additional taxes and other costs, including
loss of IRA status, that apply if you do not avoid those
acts.

Prohibited Transactions
Generally, a prohibited transaction is any improper use of
your traditional IRA account or annuity by you, your beneficiary, or any disqualified person.
Disqualified persons include your fiduciary and members of your family (spouse, ancestor, lineal descendant,
and any spouse of a lineal descendant).
The following are some examples of prohibited transactions with a traditional IRA.
Borrowing money from it.
Selling property to it.
Using it as security for a loan.
Buying property for personal use (present or future)
with IRA funds.
Fiduciary. For these purposes, a fiduciary includes anyone who does any of the following.
Exercises any discretionary authority or discretionary
control in managing your IRA or exercises any authority or control in managing or disposing of its assets.
Provides investment advice to your IRA for a fee, or
has any authority or responsibility to do so.
Has any discretionary authority or discretionary responsibility in administering your IRA.
Effect on an IRA account. Generally, if you or your beneficiary engages in a prohibited transaction in connection
with your traditional IRA account at any time during the
year, the account stops being an IRA as of the first day of
that year.
Effect on you or your beneficiary. If your account
stops being an IRA because you or your beneficiary engaged in a prohibited transaction, the account is treated
as distributing all its assets to you at their fair market values on the first day of the year. If the total of those values
is more than your basis in the IRA, you will have a taxable
gain that is includible in your income. For information on
figuring your gain and reporting it in income, see Are Distributions Taxable, earlier. The distribution may be subject
to additional taxes or penalties.
Borrowing on an annuity contract. If you borrow
money against your traditional IRA annuity contract, you
must include in your gross income the fair market value of
the annuity contract as of the first day of your tax year.
You may have to pay the 10% additional tax on early distributions, discussed later.
Pledging an account as security. If you use a part of
your traditional IRA account as security for a loan, that
part is treated as a distribution and is included in your
gross income. You may have to pay the 10% additional
tax on early distributions, discussed later.
Trust account set up by an employer or an employee
association. Your account or annuity does not lose its
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 51

IRA treatment if your employer or the employee association with whom you have your traditional IRA engages in a
prohibited transaction.
Owner participation. If you participate in the prohibited transaction with your employer or the association,
your account is no longer treated as an IRA.
Taxes on prohibited transactions. If someone other
than the owner or beneficiary of a traditional IRA engages
in a prohibited transaction, that person may be liable for
certain taxes. In general, there is a 15% tax on the amount
of the prohibited transaction and a 100% additional tax if
the transaction is not corrected.
Loss of IRA status. If the traditional IRA ceases to be
an IRA because of a prohibited transaction by you or your
beneficiary, you or your beneficiary are not liable for these
excise taxes. However, you or your beneficiary may have
to pay other taxes as discussed under Effect on you or
your beneficiary, earlier.

Exempt Transactions
The following two types of transactions are not prohibited
transactions if they meet the requirements that follow.
Payments of cash, property, or other consideration by
the sponsor of your traditional IRA to you (or members
of your family).
Your receipt of services at reduced or no cost from the
bank where your traditional IRA is established or
maintained.
Payments of cash, property, or other consideration.
Even if a sponsor makes payments to you or your family,
there is no prohibited transaction if all three of the following requirements are met.
1. The payments are for establishing a traditional IRA or
for making additional contributions to it.
2. The IRA is established solely to benefit you, your
spouse, and your or your spouse's beneficiaries.
3. During the year, the total fair market value of the payments you receive is not more than:
a. $10 for IRA deposits of less than $5,000, or
b. $20 for IRA deposits of $5,000 or more.
If the consideration is group term life insurance, requirements (1) and (3) do not apply if no more than $5,000 of
the face value of the insurance is based on a dollar-for-dollar basis on the assets in your IRA.
Services received at reduced or no cost. Even if a
sponsor provides services at reduced or no cost, there is
no prohibited transaction if all of the following requirements are met.
The traditional IRA qualifying you to receive the services is established and maintained for the benefit of
you, your spouse, and your or your spouse's beneficiaries.
Page 52

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

The bank itself can legally offer the services.
The services are provided in the ordinary course of
business by the bank (or a bank affiliate) to customers
who qualify but do not maintain an IRA (or a Keogh
plan).
The determination, for a traditional IRA, of who qualifies for these services is based on an IRA (or a Keogh
plan) deposit balance equal to the lowest qualifying
balance for any other type of account.
The rate of return on a traditional IRA investment that
qualifies is not less than the return on an identical investment that could have been made at the same time
at the same branch of the bank by a customer who is
not eligible for (or does not receive) these services.

Investment in Collectibles
If your traditional IRA invests in collectibles, the amount invested is considered distributed to you in the year invested. You may have to pay the 10% additional tax on early
distributions, discussed later.
Any amounts that were considered to be distributed
when the investment in the collectible was made, and
which were included in your income at that time, are not
included in your income when the collectible is actually
distributed from your IRA.
Collectibles. These include:
Artworks,
Rugs,
Antiques,
Metals,
Gems,
Stamps,
Coins,
Alcoholic beverages, and
Certain other tangible personal property.
Exception. Your IRA can invest in one, one-half,
one-quarter, or one-tenth ounce U.S. gold coins, or
one-ounce silver coins minted by the Treasury Department. It can also invest in certain platinum coins and certain gold, silver, palladium, and platinum bullion.

Excess Contributions
Generally, an excess contribution is the amount contributed to your traditional IRAs for the year that is more than
the smaller of:
$5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older), or
Your taxable compensation for the year.

The taxable compensation limit applies whether your
contributions are deductible or nondeductible.
Contributions for the year you reach age 701 2 and any
later year are also excess contributions.
An excess contribution could be the result of your contribution, your spouse's contribution, your employer's contribution, or an improper rollover contribution. If your employer makes contributions on your behalf to a SEP IRA,
see chapter 2 of Publication 560.

Tax on Excess Contributions
In general, if the excess contributions for a year are not
withdrawn by the date your return for the year is due (including extensions), you are subject to a 6% tax. You
must pay the 6% tax each year on excess amounts that
remain in your traditional IRA at the end of your tax year.
The tax cannot be more than 6% of the combined value of
all your IRAs as of the end of your tax year.
The additional tax is figured on Form 5329. For information on filing Form 5329, see Reporting Additional
Taxes, later.
Example. For 2013, Paul Jones is 45 years old and
single, his compensation is $31,000, and he contributed
$6,000 to his traditional IRA. Paul has made an excess
contribution to his IRA of $500 ($6,000 minus the $5,500
limit). The contribution earned $5 interest in 2013 and $6
interest in 2014 before the due date of the return, including extensions. He does not withdraw the $500 or the interest it earned by the due date of his return, including extensions.
Paul figures his additional tax for 2013 by multiplying
the excess contribution ($500) shown on Form 5329,
line 16, by .06, giving him an additional tax liability of $30.
He enters the tax on Form 5329, line 17, and on Form
1040, line 58. See Paul's filled-in Form 5329, later.

Excess Contributions Withdrawn
by Due Date of Return
You will not have to pay the 6% tax if you withdraw an excess contribution made during a tax year and you also
withdraw any interest or other income earned on the excess contribution. You must complete your withdrawal by
the date your tax return for that year is due, including extensions.
How to treat withdrawn contributions. Do not include
in your gross income an excess contribution that you withdraw from your traditional IRA before your tax return is
due if both of the following conditions are met.

You withdraw the interest or other income earned on
the excess contribution.
You can take into account any loss on the contribution
while it was in the IRA when calculating the amount that
must be withdrawn. If there was a loss, the net income
you must withdraw may be a negative amount.
In most cases, the net income you must transfer will be
determined by your IRA trustee or custodian. If you need
to determine the applicable net income you need to withdraw, you can use the same method that was used in
Worksheet 1-3, earlier.
If you timely filed your 2013 tax return without withdrawing a contribution that you made in 2013, you can still
have the contribution returned to you within 6 months of
the due date of your 2013 tax return, excluding extensions. If you do, file an amended return with “Filed pursuant to section 301.9100-2” written at the top. Report any
related earnings on the amended return and include an
explanation of the withdrawal. Make any other necessary
changes on the amended return (for example, if you reported the contributions as excess contributions on your
original return, include an amended Form 5329 reflecting
that the withdrawn contributions are no longer treated as
having been contributed).
How to treat withdrawn interest or other income. You
must include in your gross income the interest or other income that was earned on the excess contribution. Report
it on your return for the year in which the excess contribution was made. Your withdrawal of interest or other income may be subject to an additional 10% tax on early
distributions, discussed later.
Form 1099­R. You will receive Form 1099-R indicating
the amount of the withdrawal. If the excess contribution
was made in a previous tax year, the form will indicate the
year in which the earnings are taxable.
Example. Maria, age 35, made an excess contribution
in 2013 of $1,000, which she withdrew by April 15, 2014,
the due date of her return. At the same time, she also
withdrew the $50 income that was earned on the $1,000.
She must include the $50 in her gross income for 2013
(the year in which the excess contribution was made). She
must also pay an additional tax of $5 (the 10% additional
tax on early distributions because she is not yet 591 2 years
old), but she does not have to report the excess contribution as income or pay the 6% excise tax. Maria receives a
Form 1099-R showing that the earnings are taxable for
2013.

No deduction was allowed for the excess contribution.

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 53

Form

5329

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service (99)

Additional Taxes on Qualified Plans
(Including IRAs) and Other Tax-Favored Accounts

OMB No. 1545-0074

2013

▶ Attach to Form 1040 or Form 1040NR.

Attachment
Sequence No. 29

▶ Information about Form 5329 and its separate instructions is at www.irs.gov/form5329.

Your social security number

Name of individual subject to additional tax. If married filing jointly, see instructions.

Paul Jones

003-00-0000
Home address (number and street), or P.O. box if mail is not delivered to your home

▲

Fill in Your Address Only
If You Are Filing This
Form by Itself and Not
With Your Tax Return

City, town or post office, state, and ZIP code. If you have a foreign address, also complete
the spaces below (see instructions).

Foreign country name

Foreign province/state/county

Apt. no.

If this is an amended
return, check here ▶
Foreign postal code

If you only owe the additional 10% tax on early distributions, you may be able to report this tax directly on Form 1040, line 58, or
Form 1040NR, line 56, without filing Form 5329. See the instructions for Form 1040, line 58, or for Form 1040NR, line 56.

Part I

1
2
3
4

Part II

5
6
7
8

Additional Tax on Early Distributions

Complete this part if you took a taxable distribution before you reached age 59½ from a qualified retirement plan (including an
IRA) or modified endowment contract (unless you are reporting this tax directly on Form 1040 or Form 1040NR—see above). You
may also have to complete this part to indicate that you qualify for an exception to the additional tax on early distributions or for
certain Roth IRA distributions (see instructions).
Early distributions included in income. For Roth IRA distributions, see instructions . . . . . .
1
Early distributions included on line 1 that are not subject to the additional tax (see instructions).
Enter the appropriate exception number from the instructions:
. . . . . . . . .
2
Amount subject to additional tax. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3
Additional tax. Enter 10% (.10) of line 3. Include this amount on Form 1040, line 58, or Form 1040NR, line 56
4
Caution: If any part of the amount on line 3 was a distribution from a SIMPLE IRA, you may have
to include 25% of that amount on line 4 instead of 10% (see instructions).

Additional Tax on Certain Distributions From Education Accounts

Complete this part if you included an amount in income, on Form 1040 or Form 1040NR, line 21, from a Coverdell
education savings account (ESA) or a qualified tuition program (QTP).
Distributions included in income from Coverdell ESAs and QTPs . . . . . . . . . . . .
5
Distributions included on line 5 that are not subject to the additional tax (see instructions) . . .
6
Amount subject to additional tax. Subtract line 6 from line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7
Additional tax. Enter 10% (.10) of line 7. Include this amount on Form 1040, line 58, or Form 1040NR, line 56
8

Part III

Additional Tax on Excess Contributions to Traditional IRAs
Complete this part if you contributed more to your traditional IRAs for 2013 than is allowable or you had an amount on line
17 of your 2012 Form 5329.

9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Enter your excess contributions from line 16 of your 2012 Form 5329 (see instructions). If zero, go to line 15
If your traditional IRA contributions for 2013 are less than your
maximum allowable contribution, see instructions. Otherwise, enter -010
2013 traditional IRA distributions included in income (see instructions) .
11
2013 distributions of prior year excess contributions (see instructions) .
12
Add lines 10, 11, and 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prior year excess contributions. Subtract line 13 from line 9. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . .
Excess contributions for 2013 (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total excess contributions. Add lines 14 and 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Additional tax. Enter 6% (.06) of the smaller of line 16 or the value of your traditional IRAs on December 31, 2013
(including 2013 contributions made in 2014). Include this amount on Form 1040, line 58, or Form 1040NR, line 56 .

Part IV
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Additional Tax on Excess Contributions to Roth IRAs

13
14
15
16

500
500

17

30

Complete this part if you contributed more to your Roth IRAs for 2013 than is allowable or you had an amount on line 25 of your 2012 Form 5329.
Enter your excess contributions from line 24 of your 2012 Form 5329 (see instructions). If zero, go to line 23
18
If your Roth IRA contributions for 2013 are less than your maximum
allowable contribution, see instructions. Otherwise, enter -0- . . . .
19
2013 distributions from your Roth IRAs (see instructions) . . . . .
20
Add lines 19 and 20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
21
Prior year excess contributions. Subtract line 21 from line 18. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . .
22
Excess contributions for 2013 (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23
Total excess contributions. Add lines 22 and 23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24
Additional tax. Enter 6% (.06) of the smaller of line 24 or the value of your Roth IRAs on December 31, 2013
(including 2013 contributions made in 2014). Include this amount on Form 1040, line 58, or Form 1040NR, line 56
25

For Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see your tax return instructions.

Page 54

9

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Cat. No. 13329Q

Form 5329 (2013)

Excess Contributions Withdrawn
After Due Date of Return
In general, you must include all distributions (withdrawals)
from your traditional IRA in your gross income. However, if
the following conditions are met, you can withdraw excess
contributions from your IRA and not include the amount
withdrawn in your gross income.
Total contributions (other than rollover contributions)
for 2013 to your IRA were not more than $5,500
($6,500 if you are age 50 or older).
You did not take a deduction for the excess contribution being withdrawn.
The withdrawal can take place at any time, even after the
due date, including extensions, for filing your tax return for
the year.
Excess contribution deducted in an earlier year. If
you deducted an excess contribution in an earlier year for
which the total contributions were not more than the maximum deductible amount for that year (see the following table), you can still remove the excess from your traditional
IRA and not include it in your gross income. To do this, file
Form 1040X, Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, for that year and do not deduct the excess contribution on the amended return. Generally, you can file an
amended return within 3 years after you filed your return,
or 2 years from the time the tax was paid, whichever is
later.
Year(s)

Contribution Limit Contribution limit
if age 50 or older
at the end of the
year

2008 through 2012

$5,000

$6,000

2006 or 2007

$4,000

$5,000

2005

$4,000

$4,500

2002 through 2004

$3,000

$3,500

1997 through 2001

$2,000

—

before 1997

$2,250

—

Excess due to incorrect rollover information. If an excess contribution in your traditional IRA is the result of a
rollover and the excess occurred because the information
the plan was required to give you was incorrect, you can
withdraw the excess contribution. The limits mentioned
above are increased by the amount of the excess that is
due to the incorrect information. You will have to amend
your return for the year in which the excess occurred to
correct the reporting of the rollover amounts in that year.
Do not include in your gross income the part of the excess
contribution caused by the incorrect information.

Deducting an Excess Contribution
in a Later Year
You cannot apply an excess contribution to an earlier year
even if you contributed less than the maximum amount

allowable for the earlier year. However, you may be able
to apply it to a later year if the contributions for that later
year are less than the maximum allowed for that year.
You can deduct excess contributions for previous years
that are still in your traditional IRA. The amount you can
deduct this year is the lesser of the following two amounts.
Your maximum IRA deduction for this year minus any
amounts contributed to your traditional IRAs for this
year.
The total excess contributions in your IRAs at the beginning of this year.
This method lets you avoid making a withdrawal. It
does not, however, let you avoid the 6% tax on any excess contributions remaining at the end of a tax year.
To figure the amount of excess contributions for previous years that you can deduct this year, see Worksheet
1-6 next.
Worksheet 1-6. Excess Contributions Deductible This
Year
Use this worksheet to figure the amount of excess
contributions from prior years you can deduct this year.
1. Maximum IRA deduction for the current
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2. IRA contributions for the current
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3. Subtract line 2 from line 1. If zero (0) or
less, enter zero . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4. Excess contributions in IRA at beginning of
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5. Enter the lesser of line 3 or line 4. This is
the amount of excess contributions for
previous years that you can deduct this
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

Example. Teri was entitled to contribute to her traditional IRA and deduct $1,000 in 2012 and $1,500 in 2013
(the amounts of her taxable compensation for these
years). For 2012, she actually contributed $1,400 but
could deduct only $1,000. In 2012, $400 is an excess contribution subject to the 6% tax. However, she would not
have to pay the 6% tax if she withdrew the excess (including any earnings) before the due date of her 2012 return.
Because Teri did not withdraw the excess, she owes excise tax of $24 for 2012. To avoid the excise tax for 2013,
she can correct the $400 excess amount from 2012 in
2013 if her actual contributions are only $1,100 for 2013
(the allowable deductible contribution of $1,500 minus the
$400 excess from 2012 she wants to treat as a deductible
contribution in 2013). Teri can deduct $1,500 in 2013 (the
$1,100 actually contributed plus the $400 excess contribution from 2012). This is shown on Worksheet 1-6. Example—Illustrated next.
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 55

Worksheet 1-6. Example—Illustrated
Use this worksheet to figure the amount of excess
contributions from prior years you can deduct this year.
1. Maximum IRA deduction for the current
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

1,500

2. IRA contributions for the current
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

1,100

3. Subtract line 2 from line 1. If zero (0) or
less, enter zero . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

400

4. Excess contributions in IRA at beginning of
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

400

5. Enter the lesser of line 3 or line 4. This is
the amount of excess contributions for
previous years that you can deduct this
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

400

Closed tax year. A special rule applies if you incorrectly
deducted part of the excess contribution in a closed tax
year (one for which the period to assess a tax deficiency
has expired). The amount allowable as a traditional IRA
deduction for a later correction year (the year you contribute less than the allowable amount) must be reduced by
the amount of the excess contribution deducted in the
closed year.
To figure the amount of excess contributions for previous years that you can deduct this year if you incorrectly
deducted part of the excess contribution in a closed tax
year, see Worksheet 1-7 next.
Worksheet 1-7. Excess Contributions Deductible This
Year if Any Were Deducted in a
Closed Tax Year
Use this worksheet to figure the amount of excess
contributions for prior years that you can deduct this year
if you incorrectly deducted excess contributions in a
closed tax year.

Early Distributions
You must include early distributions of taxable amounts
from your traditional IRA in your gross income. Early distributions are also subject to an additional 10% tax, as discussed later.
Early distributions defined. Early distributions generally are amounts distributed from your traditional IRA account or annuity before you are age 591 2, or amounts you
receive when you cash in retirement bonds before you are
age 591 2.

Age 591 2 Rule
Generally, if you are under age 591 2, you must pay a 10%
additional tax on the distribution of any assets (money or
other property) from your traditional IRA. Distributions before you are age 591 2 are called early distributions.
The 10% additional tax applies to the part of the distribution that you have to include in gross income. It is in addition to any regular income tax on that amount.
A number of exceptions to this rule are discussed later
under Exceptions. Also see Contributions Returned Before Due Date of Return, earlier.
You may have to pay a 25%, rather than a 10%,
additional tax if you receive distributions from a
CAUTION
SIMPLE IRA before you are age 591 2. See Additional Tax on Early Distributions under When Can You
Withdraw or Use Assets? in chapter 3.

!

After age 591 2 and before age 701 2. After you reach age
591 2, you can receive distributions without having to pay
the 10% additional tax. Even though you can receive distributions after you reach age 591 2, distributions are not required until you reach age 701 2. See When Must You Withdraw Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions), earlier.

Exceptions

1. Maximum IRA deduction for the current
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2. IRA contributions for the current
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3. If line 2 is less than line 1, enter any excess
contributions that were deducted in a
closed tax year. Otherwise, enter zero
(0) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

There are several exceptions to the age 591 2 rule. Even if
you receive a distribution before you are age 591 2, you
may not have to pay the 10% additional tax if you are in
one of the following situations.

3.

4. Subtract line 3 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

You have unreimbursed medical expenses that are
more than 10% (or 7.5% if you or your spouse was
born before January 2, 1949) of your adjusted gross
income.

5. Subtract line 2 from line 4. If zero (0) or
less, enter zero . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

The distributions are not more than the cost of your
medical insurance due to a period of unemployment.

6. Excess contributions in IRA at beginning of
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

7. Enter the lesser of line 5 or line 6. This is
the amount of excess contributions for
previous years that you can deduct this
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Page 56

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

7.

You are totally and permanently disabled.
You are the beneficiary of a deceased IRA owner.
You are receiving distributions in the form of an annuity.
The distributions are not more than your qualified
higher education expenses.

You use the distributions to buy, build, or rebuild a first
home.
The distribution is due to an IRS levy of the qualified
plan.
The distribution is a qualified reservist distribution.
Most of these exceptions are explained below.
Note. Distributions that are timely and properly rolled
over, as discussed earlier, are not subject to either regular
income tax or the 10% additional tax. Certain withdrawals
of excess contributions after the due date of your return
are also tax free and therefore not subject to the 10% additional tax. (See Excess Contributions Withdrawn After
Due Date of Return, earlier.) This also applies to transfers
incident to divorce, as discussed earlier under Can You
Move Retirement Plan Assets.
Receivership distributions. Early distributions (with
or without your consent) from savings institutions placed
in receivership are subject to this tax unless one of the
above exceptions applies. This is true even if the distribution is from a receiver that is a state agency.
Unreimbursed medical expenses. Even if you are under age 591 2, you do not have to pay the 10% additional
tax on distributions that are not more than:
The amount you paid for unreimbursed medical expenses during the year of the distribution, minus
10% (or 7.5% if you or your spouse was born before
January 2, 1949) of your adjusted gross income (defined next) for the year of the distribution.
You can only take into account unreimbursed medical expenses that you would be able to include in figuring a deduction for medical expenses on Schedule A (Form
1040). You do not have to itemize your deductions to take
advantage of this exception to the 10% additional tax.
Adjusted gross income. This is the amount on Form
1040, line 38; Form 1040A, line 22; or Form 1040NR,
line 37.
Medical insurance. Even if you are under age 591 2, you
may not have to pay the 10% additional tax on distributions during the year that are not more than the amount
you paid during the year for medical insurance for yourself, your spouse, and your dependents. You will not have
to pay the tax on these amounts if all of the following conditions apply.
You lost your job.
You received unemployment compensation paid under any federal or state law for 12 consecutive weeks
because you lost your job.
You receive the distributions during either the year
you received the unemployment compensation or the
following year.
You receive the distributions no later than 60 days after you have been reemployed.

Disabled. If you become disabled before you reach age
591 2, any distributions from your traditional IRA because of
your disability are not subject to the 10% additional tax.
You are considered disabled if you can furnish proof
that you cannot do any substantial gainful activity because
of your physical or mental condition. A physician must determine that your condition can be expected to result in
death or to be of long, continued, and indefinite duration.
Beneficiary. If you die before reaching age 591 2, the assets in your traditional IRA can be distributed to your beneficiary or to your estate without either having to pay the
10% additional tax.
However, if you inherit a traditional IRA from your deceased spouse and elect to treat it as your own (as discussed under What if You Inherit an IRA, earlier), any distribution you later receive before you reach age 591 2 may
be subject to the 10% additional tax.
Annuity. You can receive distributions from your traditional IRA that are part of a series of substantially equal
payments over your life (or your life expectancy), or over
the lives (or the joint life expectancies) of you and your
beneficiary, without having to pay the 10% additional tax,
even if you receive such distributions before you are age
591 2. You must use an IRS-approved distribution method
and you must take at least one distribution annually for
this exception to apply. The “required minimum distribution method,” when used for this purpose, results in the
exact amount required to be distributed, not the minimum
amount.
There are two other IRS-approved distribution methods
that you can use. They are generally referred to as the
“fixed amortization method” and the “fixed annuitization
method.” These two methods are not discussed in this
publication because they are more complex and generally
require professional assistance. For information on these
methods, see Revenue Ruling 2002-62, which is on
page 710 of Internal Revenue Bulletin 2002-42 at
www.irs.gov/pub/irs­irbs/irb02­42.pdf.
Recapture tax for changes in distribution method
under equal payment exception. You may have to pay
an early distribution recapture tax if, before you reach age
591 2, the distribution method under the equal periodic payment exception changes (for reasons other than your
death or disability). The tax applies if the method changes
from the method requiring equal payments to a method
that would not have qualified for the exception to the tax.
The recapture tax applies to the first tax year to which the
change applies. The amount of tax is the amount that
would have been imposed had the exception not applied,
plus interest for the deferral period.
You may have to pay the recapture tax if you do not receive the payments for at least 5 years under a method
that qualifies for the exception. You may have to pay it
even if you modify your method of distribution after you
reach age 591 2. In that case, the tax applies only to payments distributed before you reach age 591 2.
Report the recapture tax and interest on line 4 of Form
5329. Attach an explanation to the form. Do not write the

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 57

explanation next to the line or enter any amount for the
recapture on lines 1 or 3 of the form.
One-time switch. If you are receiving a series of substantially equal periodic payments, you can make a
one-time switch to the required minimum distribution
method at any time without incurring the additional tax.
Once a change is made, you must follow the required minimum distribution method in all subsequent years.
Higher education expenses. Even if you are under age
591 2, if you paid expenses for higher education during the
year, part (or all) of any distribution may not be subject to
the 10% additional tax. The part not subject to the tax is
generally the amount that is not more than the qualified
higher education expenses (defined next) for the year for
education furnished at an eligible educational institution
(defined below). The education must be for you, your
spouse, or the children or grandchildren of you or your
spouse.
When determining the amount of the distribution that is
not subject to the 10% additional tax, include qualified
higher education expenses paid with any of the following
funds.

programs administered by the U.S. Department of Education. It includes virtually all accredited, public, nonprofit,
and proprietary (privately owned profit-making) postsecondary institutions. The educational institution should be
able to tell you if it is an eligible educational institution.
For more information, see chapter 9 of Publication 970,
Tax Benefits for Education.
First home. Even if you are under age 591 2, you do not
have to pay the 10% additional tax on up to $10,000 of
distributions you receive to buy, build, or rebuild a first
home. To qualify for treatment as a first-time homebuyer
distribution, the distribution must meet all the following requirements.
1. It must be used to pay qualified acquisition costs (defined next) before the close of the 120th day after the
day you received it.
2. It must be used to pay qualified acquisition costs for
the main home of a first-time homebuyer (defined below) who is any of the following.
a. Yourself.

Payment for services, such as wages.

b. Your spouse.

A loan.

c. Your or your spouse's child.
d. Your or your spouse's grandchild.

A gift.
An inheritance given to either the student or the individual making the withdrawal.
A withdrawal from personal savings (including savings
from a qualified tuition program).
Do not include expenses paid with any of the following
funds.
Tax-free distributions from a Coverdell education savings account.
Tax-free part of scholarships and fellowships.

e. Your or your spouse's parent or other ancestor.
3. When added to all your prior qualified first-time homebuyer distributions, if any, total qualifying distributions
cannot be more than $10,000.
If both you and your spouse are first­time homebuyers
(defined later), each of you can receive
TIP
distributions up to $10,000 for a first home without having to pay the 10% additional tax.
Qualified acquisition costs. Qualified acquisition
costs include the following items.

Pell grants.

Costs of buying, building, or rebuilding a home.

Employer-provided educational assistance.

Any usual or reasonable settlement, financing, or
other closing costs.

Veterans' educational assistance.
Any other tax-free payment (other than a gift or inheritance) received as educational assistance.
Qualified higher education expenses. Qualified
higher education expenses are tuition, fees, books, supplies, and equipment required for the enrollment or attendance of a student at an eligible educational institution.
They also include expenses for special needs services incurred by or for special needs students in connection with
their enrollment or attendance. In addition, if the individual
is at least a half-time student, room and board are qualified higher education expenses.
Eligible educational institution. This is any college,
university, vocational school, or other postsecondary educational institution eligible to participate in the student aid
Page 58

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

First-time homebuyer. Generally, you are a first-time
homebuyer if you had no present interest in a main home
during the 2-year period ending on the date of acquisition
of the home which the distribution is being used to buy,
build, or rebuild. If you are married, your spouse must also
meet this no-ownership requirement.
Date of acquisition. The date of acquisition is the
date that:
You enter into a binding contract to buy the main
home for which the distribution is being used, or
The building or rebuilding of the main home for which
the distribution is being used begins.

If you received a distribution to buy, build, or rebuild a first home and the purchase or construction was canceled or delayed, you generally can
contribute the amount of the distribution to an IRA within
120 days of the distribution. This contribution is treated as
a rollover contribution to the IRA.

TIP

Qualified reservist distributions. A qualified reservist
distribution is not subject to the additional tax on early distributions.
Definition. A distribution you receive is a qualified reservist distribution if the following requirements are met.
You were ordered or called to active duty after September 11, 2001.
You were ordered or called to active duty for a period
of more than 179 days or for an indefinite period because you are a member of a reserve component.
The distribution is from an IRA or from amounts attributable to elective deferrals under a section 401(k) or
403(b) plan or a similar arrangement.
The distribution was made no earlier than the date of
the order or call to active duty and no later than the
close of the active duty period.
Reserve component. The term “reserve component”
means the:
Army National Guard of the United States,
Army Reserve,
Naval Reserve,
Marine Corps Reserve,
Air National Guard of the United States,
Air Force Reserve,
Coast Guard Reserve, or
Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service.

Additional 10% tax
The additional tax on early distributions is 10% of the
amount of the early distribution that you must include in
your gross income. This tax is in addition to any regular income tax resulting from including the distribution in income.
Use Form 5329 to figure the tax. See the discussion of
Form 5329, later, under Reporting Additional Taxes for information on filing the form.
Example. Tom Jones, who is 35 years old, receives a
$3,000 distribution from his traditional IRA account. Tom
does not meet any of the exceptions to the 10% additional
tax, so the $3,000 is an early distribution. Tom never
made any nondeductible contributions to his IRA. He must
include the $3,000 in his gross income for the year of the
distribution and pay income tax on it. Tom must also pay

an additional tax of $300 (10% × $3,000). He files Form
5329. See the filled-in Form 5329, later.
Early distributions of funds from a SIMPLE retirement account made within 2 years of beginning
CAUTION
participation in the SIMPLE are subject to a 25%,
rather than a 10%, early distributions tax.

!

Nondeductible contributions. The tax on early distributions does not apply to the part of a distribution that represents a return of your nondeductible contributions (basis).

Excess Accumulations
(Insufficient Distributions)
You cannot keep amounts in your traditional IRA indefinitely. Generally, you must begin receiving distributions by
April 1 of the year following the year in which you reach
age 701 2. The required minimum distribution for any year
after the year in which you reach age 701 2 must be made
by December 31 of that later year.
Tax on excess. If distributions are less than the required minimum distribution for the year, discussed earlier
under When Must You Withdraw Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions), you may have to pay a 50% excise
tax for that year on the amount not distributed as required.
Reporting the tax. Use Form 5329 to report the tax on
excess accumulations. See the discussion of Form 5329,
later, under Reporting Additional Taxes, for more information on filing the form.
Request to waive the tax. If the excess accumulation is
due to reasonable error, and you have taken, or are taking, steps to remedy the insufficient distribution, you can
request that the tax be waived. If you believe you qualify
for this relief, attach a statement of explanation and complete Form 5329 as instructed under Waiver of tax in the
Instructions for Form 5329.
Exemption from tax. If you are unable to take required
distributions because you have a traditional IRA invested
in a contract issued by an insurance company that is in
state insurer delinquency proceedings, the 50% excise
tax does not apply if the conditions and requirements of
Revenue Procedure 92-10 are satisfied. Those conditions
and requirements are summarized below. Revenue Procedure 92-10 is in Cumulative Bulletin 1992-1. To obtain a
copy of this revenue procedure, see Mail in chapter 5,
How to Get Tax Help, later. You can also read the revenue procedure at most IRS offices, at many public libraries, and online at IRS.gov.
Conditions. To qualify for exemption from the tax, the
assets in your traditional IRA must include an affected investment. Also, the amount of your required distribution
must be determined as discussed earlier under When
Must You Withdraw Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions).
Affected investment defined. Affected investment
means an annuity contract or a guaranteed investment
Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Page 59

contract (with an insurance company) for which payments
under the terms of the contract have been reduced or suspended because of state insurer delinquency proceedings
against the contracting insurance company.
Requirements. If your traditional IRA (or IRAs) includes assets other than your affected investment, all traditional IRA assets, including the available portion of your

Page 60

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

affected investment, must be used to satisfy as much as
possible of your IRA distribution requirement. If the affected investment is the only asset in your IRA, as much of
the required distribution as possible must come from the
available portion, if any, of your affected investment.

Form

5329

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service (99)

Additional Taxes on Qualified Plans
(Including IRAs) and Other Tax-Favored Accounts

OMB No. 1545-0074

2013

▶ Attach to Form 1040 or Form 1040NR.

Attachment
Sequence No. 29

▶ Information about Form 5329 and its separate instructions is at www.irs.gov/form5329.

Your social security number

Name of individual subject to additional tax. If married filing jointly, see instructions.

Tom Jones

▲

Fill in Your Address Only
If You Are Filing This
Form by Itself and Not
With Your Tax Return

004-00-0000

Home address (number and street), or P.O. box if mail is not delivered to your home

Apt. no.

City, town or post office, state, and ZIP code. If you have a foreign address, also complete
the spaces below (see instructions).

Foreign country name

Foreign province/state/county

If this is an amended
return, check here ▶
Foreign postal code

If you only owe the additional 10% tax on early distributions, you may be able to report this tax directly on Form 1040, line 58, or
Form 1040NR, line 56, without filing Form 5329. See the instructions for Form 1040, line 58, or for Form 1040NR, line 56.

Part I

1
2
3
4

Part II

5
6
7
8

Additional Tax on Early Distributions

Complete this part if you took a taxable distribution before you reached age 59½ from a qualified retirement plan (including an
IRA) or modified endowment contract (unless you are reporting this tax directly on Form 1040 or Form 1040NR—see above). You
may also have to complete this part to indicate that you qualify for an exception to the additional tax on early distributions or for
certain Roth IRA distributions (see instructions).
3000
Early distributions included in income. For Roth IRA distributions, see instructions . . . . . .
1
Early distributions included on line 1 that are not subject to the additional tax (see instructions).
Enter the appropriate exception number from the instructions:
. . . . . . . . .
2
-03000
Amount subject to additional tax. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3
Additional tax. Enter 10% (.10) of line 3. Include this amount on Form 1040, line 58, or Form 1040NR, line 56
4
300
Caution: If any part of the amount on line 3 was a distribution from a SIMPLE IRA, you may have
to include 25% of that amount on line 4 instead of 10% (see instructions).

Additional Tax on Certain Distributions From Education Accounts

Complete this part if you included an amount in income, on Form 1040 or Form 1040NR, line 21, from a Coverdell
education savings account (ESA) or a qualified tuition program (QTP).
Distributions included in income from Coverdell ESAs and QTPs . . . . . . . . . . . .
5
Distributions included on line 5 that are not subject to the additional tax (see instructions) . . .
6
Amount subject to additional tax. Subtract line 6 from line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7
Additional tax. Enter 10% (.10) of line 7. Include this amount on Form 1040, line 58, or Form 1040NR, line 56
8

Part III

Additional Tax on Excess Contributions to Traditional IRAs
Complete this part if you contributed more to your traditional IRAs for 2013 than is allowable or you had an amount on line
17 of your 2012 Form 5329.

9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Enter your excess contributions from line 16 of your 2012 Form 5329 (see instructions). If zero, go to line 15
If your traditional IRA contributions for 2013 are less than your
maximum allowable contribution, see instructions. Otherwise, enter -010
2013 traditional IRA distributions included in income (see instructions) .
11
2013 distributions of prior year excess contributions (see instructions) .
12
Add lines 10, 11, and 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prior year excess contributions. Subtract line 13 from line 9. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . .
Excess contributions for 2013 (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total excess contributions. Add lines 14 and 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Additional tax. Enter 6% (.06) of the smaller of line 16 or the value of your traditional IRAs on December 31, 2013
(including 2013 contributions made in 2014). Include this amount on Form 1040, line 58, or Form 1040NR, line 56 .

Part IV
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9

13
14
15
16
17

Additional Tax on Excess Contributions to Roth IRAs

Complete this part if you contributed more to your Roth IRAs for 2013 than is allowable or you had an amount on line 25 of your 2012 Form 5329.
Enter your excess contributions from line 24 of your 2012 Form 5329 (see instructions). If zero, go to line 23
18
If your Roth IRA contributions for 2013 are less than your maximum
allowable contribution, see instructions. Otherwise, enter -0- . . . .
19
2013 distributions from your Roth IRAs (see instructions) . . . . .
20
Add lines 19 and 20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
21
Prior year excess contributions. Subtract line 21 from line 18. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . .
22
Excess contributions for 2013 (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23
Total excess contributions. Add lines 22 and 23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24
Additional tax. Enter 6% (.06) of the smaller of line 24 or the value of your Roth IRAs on December 31, 2013
(including 2013 contributions made in 2014). Include this amount on Form 1040, line 58, or Form 1040NR, line 56
25

For Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see your tax return instructions.

Cat. No. 13329Q

Chapter 1

Form 5329 (2013)

Traditional IRAs

Page 61

Available portion. The available portion of your affected investment is the amount of payments remaining after
they have been reduced or suspended because of state
insurer delinquency proceedings.
Make up of shortfall in distribution. If the payments
to you under the contract increase because all or part of
the reduction or suspension is canceled, you must make
up the amount of any shortfall in a prior distribution because of the proceedings. You make up (reduce or eliminate) the shortfall with the increased payments you receive.
You must make up the shortfall by December 31 of the
calendar year following the year that you receive increased payments.

Reporting Additional Taxes
Generally, you must use Form 5329 to report the tax on
excess contributions, early distributions, and excess accumulations. If you must file Form 5329, you cannot use
Form 1040A, Form 1040EZ, or Form 1040NR-EZ.
Filing a tax return. If you must file an individual income
tax return, complete Form 5329 and attach it to your Form
1040 or Form 1040NR. Enter the total additional taxes
due on Form 1040, line 58, or on Form 1040NR, line 56.
Not filing a tax return. If you do not have to file a return,
but do have to pay one of the additional taxes mentioned
earlier, file the completed Form 5329 with the IRS at the
time and place you would have filed Form 1040 or Form
1040NR. Be sure to include your address on page 1 and
your signature and date on page 2. Enclose, but do not attach, a check or money order payable to the United States
Treasury for the tax you owe, as shown on Form 5329.
Write your social security number and “2013 Form 5329”
on your check or money order.
Form 5329 not required. You do not have to use
Form 5329 if either of the following situations exists.
Distribution code 1 (early distribution) is correctly
shown in box 7 of Form 1099-R. If you do not owe any
other additional tax on a distribution, multiply the taxable part of the early distribution by 10% and enter the
result on Form 1040, line 58, or on Form 1040NR,
line 56. Put “No” to the left of the line to indicate that
you do not have to file Form 5329. However, if you
owe this tax and also owe any other additional tax on
a distribution, do not enter this 10% additional tax directly on your Form 1040 or Form 1040NR. You must
file Form 5329 to report your additional taxes.
If you rolled over part or all of a distribution from a
qualified retirement plan, the part rolled over is not
subject to the tax on early distributions.

Page 62

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

2.
Roth IRAs
What's New for 2013
Roth IRA contribution limit. If contributions on your behalf are made only to Roth IRAs, your contribution limit for
2013 will generally be the lesser of:
$5,500, or
Your taxable compensation for the year.
If you were age 50 or older before 2014 and contributions on your behalf were made only to Roth IRAs, your
contribution limit for 2013 will generally be the lesser of:
$6,500, or
Your taxable compensation for the year.
However, if your modified adjusted gross income (AGI)
is above a certain amount, your contribution limit may be
reduced.
For more information, see How Much Can Be Contributed? under Can You Contribute to a Roth IRA? in this
chapter.
Modified AGI limit for Roth IRA contributions increased. For 2013, your Roth IRA contribution limit is reduced (phased out) in the following situations.
Your filing status is married filing jointly or qualifying
widow(er) and your modified AGI is at least $178,000.
You cannot make a Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $188,000 or more.
Your filing status is single, head of household, or married filing separately and you did not live with your
spouse at any time in 2013 and your modified AGI is
at least $112,000. You cannot make a Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $127,000 or more.
Your filing status is married filing separately, you lived
with your spouse at any time during the year, and your
modified AGI is more than -0-. You cannot make a
Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $10,000
or more.
See Can You Contribute to a Roth IRA? in this chapter.
Net Investment Income Tax. For purposes of the Net
Investment Income Tax (NIIT), net investment income
does not include distributions from a qualified retirement
plan (for example, 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 457(b) plans,
and IRAs). However, these distributions are taken into account when determining the modified adjusted gross income threshold. Distributions from a nonqualified retirement plan are included in net investment income. See

Form 8960, Net Investment Income Tax—Individuals, Estates, and Trusts, and its instructions for more information.

other. See Publication 575, for more information on
designated Roth accounts.

What's New for 2014

Introduction

Modified AGI limit for Roth IRA contributions increased. For 2014, your Roth IRA contribution limit is reduced (phased out) in the following situations.
Your filing status is married filing jointly or qualifying
widow(er) and your modified AGI is at least $181,000.
You cannot make a Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $191,000 or more.
Your filing status is single, head of household, or married filing separately and you did not live with your
spouse at any time in 2014 and your modified AGI is
at least $114,000. You cannot make a Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $129,000 or more.
Your filing status is married filing separately, you lived
with your spouse at any time during the year, and your
modified AGI is more than -0-. You cannot make a
Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $10,000
or more.

Reminders
Deemed IRAs. For plan years beginning after 2002, a
qualified employer plan (retirement plan) can maintain a
separate account or annuity under the plan (a deemed
IRA) to receive voluntary employee contributions. If the
separate account or annuity otherwise meets the requirements of an IRA, it will be subject only to IRA rules. An
employee's account can be treated as a traditional IRA or
a Roth IRA.
For this purpose, a “qualified employer plan” includes:
A qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus
plan (section 401(a) plan),
A qualified employee annuity plan (section 403(a)
plan),
A tax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan), and
A deferred compensation plan (section 457 plan)
maintained by a state, a political subdivision of a state,
or an agency or instrumentality of a state or political
subdivision of a state.
Designated Roth accounts. Designated Roth accounts
are separate accounts under 401(k), 403(b), or 457(b)
plans that accept elective deferrals that are referred to as
Roth contributions. These elective deferrals are included
in your income, but qualified distributions from these accounts are not included in your income. Designated Roth
accounts are not IRAs and should not be confused with
Roth IRAs. Contributions, up to their respective limits, can
be made to Roth IRAs and designated Roth accounts according to your eligibility to participate. A contribution to
one does not impact your eligibility to contribute to the

Regardless of your age, you may be able to establish and
make nondeductible contributions to an individual retirement plan called a Roth IRA.
Contributions not reported. You do not report Roth IRA
contributions on your return.

What Is a Roth IRA?
A Roth IRA is an individual retirement plan that, except as
explained in this chapter, is subject to the rules that apply
to a traditional IRA (defined next). It can be either an account or an annuity. Individual retirement accounts and
annuities are described in chapter 1 under How Can a
Traditional IRA Be Opened.
To be a Roth IRA, the account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is opened. A deemed IRA
can be a Roth IRA, but neither a SEP IRA nor a SIMPLE
IRA can be designated as a Roth IRA.
Unlike a traditional IRA, you cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. But, if you satisfy the requirements,
qualified distributions (discussed later) are tax free. Contributions can be made to your Roth IRA after you reach
age 701 2 and you can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as
long as you live.
Traditional IRA. A traditional IRA is any IRA that is not a
Roth IRA or SIMPLE IRA. Traditional IRAs are discussed
in chapter 1.

When Can a Roth IRA Be
Opened?
You can open a Roth IRA at any time. However, the time
for making contributions for any year is limited. See When
Can You Make Contributions, later under Can You Contribute to a Roth IRA.

Can You Contribute to
a Roth IRA?
Generally, you can contribute to a Roth IRA if you have
taxable compensation (defined later) and your modified
AGI (defined later) is less than:
$188,000 for married filing jointly or qualifying
widow(er),
$127,000 for single, head of household, or married filing separately and you did not live with your spouse at
any time during the year, and
Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

Page 63

$10,000 for married filing separately and you lived
with your spouse at any time during the year.

TIP

You may be able to claim a credit for contributions to your Roth IRA. For more information, see
chapter 4.

Is there an age limit for contributions? Contributions
can be made to your Roth IRA regardless of your age.
Can you contribute to a Roth IRA for your spouse?
You can contribute to a Roth IRA for your spouse provided the contributions satisfy the Kay Bailey Hutchison
Spousal IRA limit discussed in chapter 1 under How Much
Can Be Contributed, you file jointly, and your modified AGI
is less than $188,000.
Compensation. Compensation includes wages, salaries,
tips, professional fees, bonuses, and other amounts received for providing personal services. It also includes
commissions, self-employment income, nontaxable combat pay, military differential pay, and taxable alimony and
separate maintenance payments. For more information,
see What Is Compensation? under Who Can Open a Traditional IRA? in chapter 1.
Modified AGI. Your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes
is your adjusted gross income (AGI) as shown on your return with some adjustments. Use Worksheet 2-1 , later, to
determine your modified AGI.
Do not subtract conversion income when figuring
your other AGI­based phaseouts and taxable inCAUTION
come, such as your deduction for medical and
dental expenses. Subtract them from AGI only for the purpose of figuring your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes.

!

How Much Can Be Contributed?
The contribution limit for Roth IRAs generally depends on
whether contributions are made only to Roth IRAs or to
both traditional IRAs and Roth IRAs.
Roth IRAs only. If contributions are made only to Roth
IRAs, your contribution limit generally is the lesser of:
$5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older), or
Your taxable compensation.
However, if your modified AGI is above a certain
amount, your contribution limit may be reduced, as explained later under Contribution limit reduced.
Roth IRAs and traditional IRAs. If contributions are
made to both Roth IRAs and traditional IRAs established
for your benefit, your contribution limit for Roth IRAs generally is the same as your limit would be if contributions
were made only to Roth IRAs, but then reduced by all contributions for the year to all IRAs other than Roth IRAs.
Employer contributions under a SEP or SIMPLE IRA plan
do not affect this limit.

Page 64

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

This means that your contribution limit is the lesser of:
$5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older) minus all
contributions (other than employer contributions under
a SEP or SIMPLE IRA plan) for the year to all IRAs
other than Roth IRAs, or
Your taxable compensation minus all contributions
(other than employer contributions under a SEP or
SIMPLE IRA plan) for the year to all IRAs other than
Roth IRAs.
However, if your modified AGI is above a certain
amount, your contribution limit may be reduced, as explained below under Contribution limit reduced.
Simplified employee pensions (SEPs) are discussed in
Publication 560. Savings incentive match plans for employees (SIMPLEs) are discussed in chapter 3.
Repayment of reservist distributions. You can repay
qualified reservist distributions even if the repayments
would cause your total contributions to the Roth IRA to be
more than the general limit on contributions. However, the
total repayments cannot be more than the amount of your
distribution.
Note. If you make repayments of qualified reservist
distributions to a Roth IRA, increase your basis in the Roth
IRA by the amount of the repayment. For more information, see Qualified reservist repayments under How Much
Can Be Contributed? in chapter 1.
Contribution limit reduced. If your modified AGI is
above a certain amount, your contribution limit is gradually
reduced. Use Table 2-1, later, to determine if this reduction applies to you.
Figuring the reduction. If the amount you can contribute must be reduced, use Worksheet 2-2, later, to figure your reduced contribution limit.
Round your reduced contribution limit up to the
nearest $10. If your reduced contribution limit is
more than $0, but less than $200, increase the
limit to $200.

TIP

Example. You are a 45-year-old, single individual with
taxable compensation of $113,000. You want to make the
maximum allowable contribution to your Roth IRA for
2013. Your modified AGI for 2013 is $113,000. You have
not contributed to any traditional IRA, so the maximum
contribution limit before the modified AGI reduction is
$5,500. You figure your reduced Roth IRA contribution of
$5,140 as shown on Worksheet 2-2. Example—Illustrated, later.

When Can You Make Contributions?
You can make contributions to a Roth IRA for a year at
any time during the year or by the due date of your return
for that year (not including extensions).

Worksheet 2-1. Modified Adjusted Gross Income for Roth IRA Purposes
Use this worksheet to figure your modified adjusted gross income for Roth IRA purposes.

1. Enter your adjusted gross income from Form 1040, line 38; Form 1040A,
line 22; or Form 1040NR, line 37 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2. Enter any income resulting from the conversion of an IRA (other than a
Roth IRA) to a Roth IRA (included on Form 1040, line 15b, Form 1040A,
line 11b, or Form 1040NR, line 16b) and a rollover from a qualified
retirement plan to a Roth IRA (included on Form 1040, line 16b, Form
1040A, line 12b, or Form 1040NR, line 17b) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4. Enter any traditional IRA deduction from Form 1040, line 32; Form
1040A, line 17; or Form 1040NR, line 32 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5. Enter any student loan interest deduction from Form 1040, line 33; Form
1040A, line 18; or Form 1040NR, line 33 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6. Enter any tuition and fees deduction from Form 1040, line 34, or Form
1040A, line 19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

7. Enter any domestic production activities deduction from Form 1040,
line 35, or Form 1040NR, line 34 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

8. Enter any foreign earned income exclusion and/or housing exclusion
from Form 2555, line 45, or Form 2555-EZ, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

9. Enter any foreign housing deduction from Form 2555, line 50 . . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

10. Enter any excludable qualified savings bond interest from Form 8815,
line 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.
11. Enter any excluded employer-provided adoption benefits from Form
8839, line 28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.
12. Add the amounts on lines 3 through 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.
13. Enter:
$188,000 if married filing jointly or qualifying widow(er),
$10,000 if married filing separately and you lived with your spouse at
any time during the year, or
$127,000 for all others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.
Is the amount on line 12 more than the amount on line 13?
If yes, see the note below.
If no, the amount on line 12 is your modified adjusted gross income
for Roth IRA purposes.
Note. If the amount on line 12 is more than the amount on line 13 and you have other income
or loss items, such as social security income or passive activity losses, that are subject to
AGI-based phaseouts, you can refigure your AGI solely for the purpose of figuring your
modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes. (If you receive social security benefits, use Worksheet 1
in Appendix B to refigure your AGI.) Then go to line 3 above in this Worksheet 2-1 to refigure
your modified AGI. If you do not have other income or loss items subject to AGI-based
phaseouts, your modified adjusted gross income for Roth IRA purposes is the amount on
line 12 above.

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

Page 65

Table 2-1. Effect of Modified AGI on Roth IRA Contribution
This table shows whether your contribution to a Roth IRA is affected by the amount of your modified adjusted gross
income (modified AGI).

IF you have taxable
compensation
and your filing status is ...

married filing jointly or
qualifying widow(er)

married filing separately and
you lived with your spouse at
any
time during the year

single,
head of household,
or married filing separately
and
you did not live with your
spouse
at any time during the year

Page 66

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

AND your modified AGI is ...

THEN ...

less than $178,000

you can contribute up to
$5,500 ($6,500 if you are age
50 or older) as explained under
How Much Can Be Contributed.

at least $178,000
but less than $188,000

the amount you can contribute
is reduced as explained under
Contribution limit reduced.

$188,000 or more

you cannot contribute to a Roth
IRA.

zero (-0-)

you can contribute up to
$5,500 ($6,500 if you are age
50 or older) as explained under
How Much Can Be Contributed.

more than zero (-0-)
but less than $10,000

the amount you can contribute
is reduced as explained under
Contribution limit reduced.

$10,000 or more

you cannot contribute to a Roth
IRA.

less than $112,000

you can contribute up to
$5,500 ($6,500 if you are age
50 or older) as explained under
How Much Can Be Contributed.

at least $112,000
but less than $127,000

the amount you can contribute
is reduced as explained under
Contribution limit reduced.

$127,000 or more

you cannot contribute to a Roth
IRA.

Worksheet 2-2. Determining Your Reduced Roth IRA Contribution Limit
Before using this worksheet, check Table 2­1, earlier, to determine whether or not your Roth IRA contribution limit is
reduced. If it is, use this worksheet to determine how much it is reduced.

1. Enter your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes (Worksheet 2-1,
line 12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2. Enter:
$178,000 if filing a joint return or qualifying widow(er),
$-0- if married filing a separate return and you lived with your spouse
at any time in 2013, or
$112,000 for all others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4. Enter:
$10,000 if filing a joint return or qualifying widow(er) or married filing a
separate return and you lived with your spouse at any time during the
year, or
$15,000 for all others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5. Divide line 3 by line 4 and enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at
least three places). If the result is 1.000 or more, enter 1.000 . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6. Enter the lesser of:
$5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older), or
Your taxable compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

....................

6.

7. Multiply line 5 by line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

8. Subtract line 7 from line 6. Round the result up to the nearest $10. If the
result is less than $200, enter $200 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

9. Enter contributions for the year to other IRAs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

10. Subtract line 9 from line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10.

11. Enter the lesser of line 8 or line 10. This is your reduced Roth IRA
contribution limit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

11.

You can make contributions for 2013 by the due
date (not including extensions) for filing your
2013 tax return. This means that most people can
make contributions for 2013 by April 15, 2014.

TIP

tribution limit for the year (explained earlier under
How Much Can Be Contributed?), plus
2. Any excess contributions for the preceding year, reduced by the total of:

What if You Contribute Too Much?

a. Any distributions out of your Roth IRAs for the
year, plus

A 6% excise tax applies to any excess contribution to a
Roth IRA.

b. Your contribution limit for the year minus your contributions to all your IRAs for the year.

Excess contributions. These are the contributions to
your Roth IRAs for a year that equal the total of:

Withdrawal of excess contributions. For purposes
of determining excess contributions, any contribution that
is withdrawn on or before the due date (including extensions) for filing your tax return for the year is treated as an
amount not contributed. This treatment only applies if any
earnings on the contributions are also withdrawn. The
earnings are considered earned and received in the year
the excess contribution was made.

1. Amounts contributed for the tax year to your Roth
IRAs (other than amounts properly and timely rolled
over from a Roth IRA or properly converted from a traditional IRA or rolled over from a qualified retirement
plan, as described later) that are more than your con-

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

Page 67

Worksheet 2-2. Example—Illustrated
Before using this worksheet, check Table 2­1, earlier, to determine whether or not your Roth IRA contribution limit is
reduced. If it is, use this worksheet to determine how much it is reduced.
1. Enter your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes (Worksheet 2-1, line 12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

113,000

$-0- if married filing a separate return and you lived with your spouse at any time in
2013, or
$112,000 for all others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

112,000

3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

1,000

4. Enter:
$10,000 if filing a joint return or qualifying widow(er) or married filing a separate return
and you lived with your spouse at any time during the year, or
$15,000 for all others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

15,000

5. Divide line 3 by line 4 and enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places).
If the result is 1.000 or more, enter 1.000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

.067

......................

6.

5,500

7. Multiply line 5 by line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

369

8. Subtract line 7 from line 6. Round the result up to the nearest $10. If the result is less than
$200, enter $200 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

5,140

9. Enter contributions for the year to other IRAs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

0

10. Subtract line 9 from line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10.

5,500

11. Enter the lesser of line 8 or line 10. This is your reduced Roth IRA
contribution limit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

11.

5,140

2. Enter:
$178,000 if filing a joint return or qualifying widow(er),

6. Enter the lesser of:
$5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older), or
Your taxable compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

If you timely filed your 2013 tax return without withdrawing a contribution that you made in 2013, you can still
have the contribution returned to you within 6 months of
the due date of your 2013 tax return, excluding extensions. If you do, file an amended return with “Filed pursuant to section 301.9100-2” written at the top. Report any
related earnings on the amended return and include an
explanation of the withdrawal. Make any other necessary
changes on the amended return.
Applying excess contributions. If contributions to your
Roth IRA for a year were more than the limit, you can apply the excess contribution in one year to a later year if the
contributions for that later year are less than the maximum
allowed for that year.

Can You Move Amounts
Into a Roth IRA?
You may be able to convert amounts from either a traditional, SEP, or SIMPLE IRA into a Roth IRA. You may be
able to roll over amounts from a qualified retirement plan
to a Roth IRA. You may be able to recharacterize contributions made to one IRA as having been made directly to
a different IRA. You can roll amounts over from a
Page 68

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

designated Roth account or from one Roth IRA to another
Roth IRA.

Conversions
You can convert a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA. The conversion is treated as a rollover, regardless of the conversion method used. Most of the rules for rollovers, described in chapter 1 under Rollover From One IRA Into
Another, apply to these rollovers. However, the 1-year
waiting period does not apply.
Conversion methods. You can convert amounts from a
traditional IRA to a Roth IRA in any of the following three
ways.
Rollover. You can receive a distribution from a traditional IRA and roll it over (contribute it) to a Roth IRA
within 60 days after the distribution.
Trustee-to-trustee transfer. You can direct the
trustee of the traditional IRA to transfer an amount
from the traditional IRA to the trustee of the Roth IRA.
Same trustee transfer. If the trustee of the traditional
IRA also maintains the Roth IRA, you can direct the
trustee to transfer an amount from the traditional IRA
to the Roth IRA.

Same trustee. Conversions made with the same
trustee can be made by redesignating the traditional IRA
as a Roth IRA, rather than opening a new account or issuing a new contract.
Income. You must include in your gross income distributions from a traditional IRA that you would have had to include in income if you had not converted them into a Roth
IRA. These amounts are normally included in income on
your return for the year that you converted them from a
traditional IRA to a Roth IRA.
If you must include any amount in your gross income, you may have to increase your withholding
CAUTION
or make estimated tax payments. See Publication
505, Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax.

!

More information. For more information on conversions,
see Converting From Any Traditional IRA Into a Roth IRA
in chapter 1.

Rollover From Employer's Plan Into a
Roth IRA
You can roll over into a Roth IRA all or part of an eligible
rollover distribution you receive from your (or your deceased spouse's):
Employer's qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock
bonus plan (including a 401(k) plan);
Annuity plan;
Tax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan); or
Governmental deferred compensation plan (section
457 plan).
Any amount rolled over is subject to the same rules for
converting a traditional IRA into a Roth IRA. See Converting From Any Traditional IRA Into a Roth IRA in chapter 1.
Also, the rollover contribution must meet the rollover requirements that apply to the specific type of retirement
plan.
Rollover methods. You can roll over amounts from a
qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA in one of the following ways.
Rollover. You can receive a distribution from a qualified retirement plan and roll it over (contribute) to a
Roth IRA within 60 days after the distribution. Since
the distribution is paid directly to you, the payer generally must withhold 20% of it.
Direct rollover option. Your employer's qualified
plan must give you the option to have any part of an
eligible rollover distribution paid directly to a Roth IRA.
Generally, no tax is withheld from any part of the designated distribution that is directly paid to the trustee
of the Roth IRA.
Rollover by nonspouse beneficiary. If you are a designated beneficiary (other than a surviving spouse) of a deceased employee, you can roll over all or part of an eligi-

ble rollover distribution from one of the types of plans
listed above into a Roth IRA. You must make the rollover
by a direct trustee-to-trustee transfer into an inherited
Roth IRA.
You will determine your required minimum distributions
in years after you make the rollover based on whether the
employee died before his or her required beginning date
for taking distributions from the plan. For more information, see Distributions after the employee’s death under
Tax on Excess Accumulation in Publication 575.
Income. You must include in your gross income distributions from a qualified retirement plan that you would have
had to include in income if you had not rolled them over
into a Roth IRA. You do not include in gross income any
part of a distribution from a qualified retirement plan that is
a return of contributions (after-tax contributions) to the
plan that were taxable to you when paid. These amounts
are normally included in income on your return for the year
of the rollover from the qualified employer plan to a Roth
IRA.
If you must include any amount in your gross income, you may have to increase your withholding
CAUTION
or make estimated tax payments. See Publication
505, Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax.

!

For more information on eligible rollover distributions
from qualified retirement plans and withholding, see Rollover From Employer's Plan Into an IRA in chapter 1.

Military Death Gratuities and
Servicemembers' Group Life
Insurance (SGLI) Payments
If you received a military death gratuity or SGLI payment
with respect to a death from injury that occurred after October 6, 2001, you can contribute (roll over) all or part of
the amount received to your Roth IRA. The contribution is
treated as a qualified rollover contribution.
The amount you can roll over to your Roth IRA cannot
exceed the total amount that you received reduced by any
part of that amount that was contributed to a Coverdell
ESA or another Roth IRA. Any military death gratuity or
SGLI payment contributed to a Roth IRA is disregarded
for purposes of the 1-year waiting period between rollovers.
The rollover must be completed before the end of the
1-year period beginning on the date you received the payment.
The amount contributed to your Roth IRA is treated as
part of your cost basis (investment in the contract) in the
Roth IRA that is not taxable when distributed.

Rollover From a Roth IRA
You can withdraw, tax free, all or part of the assets from
one Roth IRA if you contribute them within 60 days to another Roth IRA. Most of the rules for rollovers, described
in chapter 1 under Rollover From One IRA Into Another,
Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

Page 69

apply to these rollovers. However, rollovers from retirement plans other than Roth IRAs are disregarded for purposes of the 1-year waiting period between rollovers.
A rollover from a Roth IRA to an employer retirement
plan is not allowed.
A rollover from a designated Roth account can only be
made to another designated Roth account or to a Roth
IRA.
If you roll over an amount from one Roth IRA to another
Roth IRA, the 5-year period used to determine qualified
distributions does not change. The 5-year period begins
with the first taxable year for which the contribution was
made to the initial Roth IRA. See What are Qualified Distributions, later.

Rollover of Exxon Valdez Settlement
Income
If you are a qualified taxpayer (defined in chapter 1, earlier) and you received qualified settlement income (defined in chapter 1, earlier), you can contribute all or part of
the amount received to an eligible retirement plan which
includes a Roth IRA. The rules for contributing qualified
settlement income to a Roth IRA are the same as the rules
for contributing qualified settlement income to a traditional
IRA with the following exception. Qualified settlement income that is contributed to a Roth IRA, or to a designated
Roth account, will be:
Included in your taxable income for the year the qualified settlement income was received, and
Treated as part of your cost basis (investment in the
contract) in the Roth IRA that is not taxable when distributed.
For more information, see Rollover of Exxon Valdez
Settlement Income in chapter 1.

Rollover of Airline Payments
If you are a qualified airline employee (defined next), you
may contribute any portion of an airline payment (defined
below) you receive to a Roth IRA. The contribution must
be made within 180 days from the date you received the
payment. The contribution will be treated as a qualified
rollover contribution. The rollover contribution is included
in income to the extent it would be included in income if it
were not part of the rollover contribution. Also, any reduction in the airline payment amount on account of employment taxes shall be disregarded when figuring the amount
you can contribute to your Roth IRA.
Qualified airline employee. A current or former employee of a commercial airline carrier who was a participant in a qualified defined benefit plan maintained by the
carrier which was terminated or became subject to restrictions under Section 402(b) of the Pension Protection Act
of 2006. These provisions also apply to surviving spouses
of qualified airline employees.
Page 70

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

Airline payment. An airline payment is any payment of
money or other property that is paid to a qualified airline
employee from a commercial airline carrier. The payment
also must be made both:
Under the approval of an order of federal bankruptcy
court in a case filed after September 11, 2001, and
before January 1, 2007, and
In respect of the qualified airline employee’s interest in
a bankruptcy claim against the airline carrier, any note
of the carrier (or amount paid in lieu of a note being issued), or any other fixed obligation of the carrier to
pay a lump sum amount.
Any reduction in the airline payment amount on account of
employment taxes shall be disregarded when figuring the
amount you can roll over to your traditional IRA. Also, an
airline payment shall not include any amount payable on
the basis of the airline carrier’s future earnings or profits.

Are Distributions Taxable?
You do not include in your gross income qualified distributions or distributions that are a return of your regular contributions from your Roth IRA(s). You also do not include
distributions from your Roth IRA that you roll over tax free
into another Roth IRA. You may have to include part of
other distributions in your income. See Ordering Rules for
Distributions, later.
Basis of distributed property. The basis of property
distributed from a Roth IRA is its fair market value (FMV)
on the date of distribution, whether or not the distribution
is a qualified distribution.
Withdrawals of contributions by due date. If you withdraw contributions (including any net earnings on the contributions) by the due date of your return for the year in
which you made the contribution, the contributions are
treated as if you never made them. If you have an extension of time to file your return, you can withdraw the contributions and earnings by the extended due date. The withdrawal of contributions is tax free, but you must include
the earnings on the contributions in income for the year in
which you made the contributions.

What Are Qualified Distributions?
A qualified distribution is any payment or distribution from
your Roth IRA that meets the following requirements.
1. It is made after the 5-year period beginning with the
first taxable year for which a contribution was made to
a Roth IRA set up for your benefit, and
2. The payment or distribution is:
a. Made on or after the date you reach age 591 2,
b. Made because you are disabled (defined earlier),
c. Made to a beneficiary or to your estate after your
death, or

d. One that meets the requirements listed under First
home under Exceptions in chapter 1 (up to a
$10,000 lifetime limit).

Additional Tax on Early Distributions
If you receive a distribution that is not a qualified distribution, you may have to pay the 10% additional tax on early
distributions as explained in the following paragraphs.
Distributions of conversion and certain rollover contributions within 5­year period. If, within the 5-year period starting with the first day of your tax year in which you
convert an amount from a traditional IRA or rollover an
amount from a qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA, you
take a distribution from a Roth IRA, you may have to pay
the 10% additional tax on early distributions. You generally must pay the 10% additional tax on any amount attributable to the part of the amount converted or rolled over
(the conversion or rollover contribution) that you had to include in income (recapture amount). A separate 5-year
period applies to each conversion and rollover. See Ordering Rules for Distributions, later, to determine the recapture amount, if any.
The 5-year period used for determining whether the
10% early distribution tax applies to a distribution from a
conversion or rollover contribution is separately determined for each conversion and rollover, and is not necessarily the same as the 5-year period used for determining
whether a distribution is a qualified distribution. See What
Are Qualified Distributions, earlier.
For example, if a calendar-year taxpayer makes a conversion contribution on February 25, 2013, and makes a
regular contribution for 2012 on the same date, the 5-year
period for the conversion begins January 1, 2013, while
the 5-year period for the regular contribution begins on
January 1, 2012.
Unless one of the exceptions listed later applies, you
must pay the additional tax on the portion of the distribution attributable to the part of the conversion or rollover
contribution that you had to include in income because of
the conversion or rollover.

You must pay the 10% additional tax in the year of the
distribution, even if you had included the conversion or
rollover contribution in an earlier year. You also must pay
the additional tax on any portion of the distribution attributable to earnings on contributions.
Other early distributions. Unless one of the exceptions
listed below applies, you must pay the 10% additional tax
on the taxable part of any distributions that are not qualified distributions.
Exceptions. You may not have to pay the 10% additional
tax in the following situations.
You have reached age 591 2.
You are totally and permanently disabled.
You are the beneficiary of a deceased IRA owner.
You use the distribution to buy, build, or rebuild a first
home.
The distributions are part of a series of substantially
equal payments.
You have unreimbursed medical expenses that are
more than 10% (or 7.5% if you or your spouse was
born before January 2, 1949) of your adjusted gross
income (defined earlier) for the year.
You are paying medical insurance premiums during a
period of unemployment.
The distributions are not more than your qualified
higher education expenses.
The distribution is due to an IRS levy of the qualified
plan.
The distribution is a qualified reservist distribution.
Most of these exceptions are discussed earlier in chapter 1 under Early Distributions.

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

Page 71

Figure 2-1.

Is the Distribution From Your Roth IRA a Qualified Distribution?
Start Here
Has it been at least 5 years from the beginning of the
year for which you first set up and contributed to a
Roth IRA?

No

Yes

Yes

Were you at least 591⁄2 years old at the time of the
distribution?
No

Yes

Is the distribution being used to buy or rebuild a first
home as explained in First Home under Early
Distr ibutions in chapter 1?
No

Yes

Is the distribution due to your being disabled (defined
under Early Distributions in chapter 1)?
No

Was the distribution made to your beneficiary or your
estate after your death?

No

Yes

The distribution from the Roth IRA is a qualified
distribution. It is not subject to tax or penalty.

Page 72

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

The distribution from the Roth IRA is
not a qualified distribution. The
portion of the distribution allocable
to earnings may be subject to tax
and it may be subject to the 10%
additional tax.

Ordering Rules for Distributions
If you receive a distribution from your Roth IRA that is not
a qualified distribution, part of it may be taxable. There is a
set order in which contributions (including conversion contributions and rollover contributions from qualified retirement plans) and earnings are considered to be distributed
from your Roth IRA. For these purposes, disregard the
withdrawal of excess contributions and the earnings on
them (discussed earlier under What if You Contribute Too
Much). Order the distributions as follows.
1. Regular contributions.
2. Conversion and rollover contributions, on a first-in,
first-out basis (generally, total conversions and rollovers from the earliest year first). See Aggregation
(grouping and adding) rules, later. Take these conversion and rollover contributions into account as follows:
a. Taxable portion (the amount required to be included in gross income because of the conversion or
rollover) first, and then the
b. Nontaxable portion.
3. Earnings on contributions.
Disregard rollover contributions from other Roth IRAs for
this purpose.
Aggregation (grouping and adding) rules. Determine the taxable amounts distributed (withdrawn), distributions, and contributions by grouping and adding them
together as follows.
Add all distributions from all your Roth IRAs during the
year together.
Add all regular contributions made for the year (including contributions made after the close of the year, but
before the due date of your return) together. Add this
total to the total undistributed regular contributions
made in prior years.
Add all conversion and rollover contributions made
during the year together. For purposes of the ordering
rules, in the case of any conversion or rollover in
which the conversion or rollover distribution is made in
2013 and the conversion or rollover contribution is
made in 2014, treat the conversion or rollover contribution as contributed before any other conversion or
rollover contributions made in 2014.
Add any recharacterized contributions that end up in a
Roth IRA to the appropriate contribution group for the year
that the original contribution would have been taken into
account if it had been made directly to the Roth IRA.
Disregard any recharacterized contribution that ends
up in an IRA other than a Roth IRA for the purpose of
grouping (aggregating) both contributions and distributions. Also disregard any amount withdrawn to correct an
excess contribution (including the earnings withdrawn) for
this purpose.
Example. On October 15, 2009, Justin converted all
$80,000 in his traditional IRA to his Roth IRA. His Forms

8606 from prior years show that $20,000 of the amount
converted is his basis.
Justin included $60,000 ($80,000 − $20,000) in his
gross income.
On February 23, 2013, Justin made a regular contribution of $5,000 to a Roth IRA. On November 8, 2013, at
age 60, Justin took a $7,000 distribution from his Roth
IRA.
The first $5,000 of the distribution is a return of Justin's
regular contribution and is not includible in his income.
The next $2,000 of the distribution is not includible in
income because it was included previously.
Figuring your recapture amount. If you had an early
distribution from your Roth IRAs in 2013, you must allocate the early distribution by using the Recapture
Amount—Allocation Chart, later.
Amount to include on Form 5329, line 1. Include on
line 1 of your 2013 Form 5329 the following four amounts
from the Recapture Amount—Allocation Chart that you filled out.
The amount you allocated to line 20 of your 2013
Form 8606.
The amount(s) allocated to your 2009 through 2013
Forms 8606, line 18, and your 2010 Form 8606,
line 23.
The amount(s) allocated to your 2009, 2011, 2012,
and 2013 Forms 1040, line 16b; Forms 1040A,
line 12b; and Forms 1040NR, line 17b.
The amount from your 2013 Form 8606, line 25.
Also, include any amount you allocated to line 20 of
your 2013 Form 8606 on your 2013 Form 5329, line 2,
and enter exception number 09.
Example. Ishmael, age 32, opened a Roth IRA in
2000. He made the maximum contributions to it every
year. In addition, he made the following transactions into
his Roth IRA.
In 2005, he converted $10,000 from his traditional IRA
into his Roth IRA. He filled out a 2005 Form 8606 and
attached it with his 2005 Form 1040. He entered $0 on
line 17 of Form 8606 because he took a deduction for
all the contributions to the traditional IRA, therefore he
has no basis. He entered $10,000 on line 18 of Form
8606.
In 2011, he rolled over the entire balance of his qualified retirement plan, $20,000, into a Roth IRA when he
changed jobs. He used a 2011 Form 1040 to file his
taxes. He entered $20,000 on line 16a of Form 1040
because that was the amount reported in box 1 of his
2011 Form 1099-R. Box 5 of his 2011 Form 1099-R
reported $0 since he did not make any after-tax contributions to the qualified retirement plan. He entered
$20,000 on line 16b of Form 1040 since that is the taxable amount that was rolled over in 2011.
The total balance in his Roth IRA as of January 1, 2013
was $105,000 ($50,000 in contributions from 2000
through 2012 + $10,000 from the 2005 conversion +
Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

Page 73

$20,000 from the 2011 rollover + $25,000 from earnings).
He has not taken any early distribution from his Roth IRA
before 2013. In 2013, he made the maximum contribution
of $5,500 to his Roth IRA.
In August of 2013, he took a $85,500 early distribution
from his Roth IRA to use as a down payment on the purchase of his first home. See his filled out Illustrated Recapture Amount—Allocation Chart, later, to see how he allocated the amounts from the above transactions. Based

on his allocation, he would enter $20,000 on his 2013
Form 5329, line 1 (see Amount to include on Form 5329,
line 1, above). He should also report $10,000 on his 2013
Form 5329, line 2, and enter exception 09 since that
amount is not subject to the 10% additional tax on early
distributions.

Recapture Amount—Allocation Chart
Enter the amount from your 2013 Form 8606,
line 19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Before you begin: You will need your prior year Form(s) 8606 and income tax return(s) if you entered an amount on any line(s) as indicated below.
You will now allocate the amount you entered above (2013 Form 8606, line 19) in the order shown, to the amounts on the lines listed below (to the
extent a prior year distribution was not allocable to the amount). The maximum amount you can enter on each line below is the amount entered on
the referenced lines of the form for that year. Note. Once you have allocated the full amount from your 2013 Form 8606, line 19, STOP. See the
Example, earlier.
Tax Year

Your Form

2013

Form 8606, line 20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1998

Form 8606, line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1999

Form 8606, line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2000

Form 8606, line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2001

Form 8606, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2002

Form 8606, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2003

Form 8606, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2004

Form 8606, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2005

Form 8606, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2006

Form 8606, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2007

Form 8606, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2008

Form 8606, line 18
and
Form 1040, line 16b; Form 1040A,
line 12b; or Form 1040NR,
line 17b* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17
and
Form 1040, line 16a; Form 1040A,
line 12a; or Form 1040NR,
line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2009

Form 8606, line 18
and
Form 1040, line 16b; Form 1040A,
line 12b; or Form 1040NR,
line 17b* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17
and
Form 1040, line 16a; Form 1040A,
line 12a; or Form 1040NR,
line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2010

Form 8606, lines 18 and 23 . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, lines 17 and 22 . . . . . . . . . .

2011

Form 8606, line 18
and
Form 1040, line 16b; Form 1040A,
line 12b; or Form 1040NR,
line 17b* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17
and
Form 1040, line 16a; Form 1040A,
line 12a; or Form 1040NR,
line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2012

Form 8606, line 18
and
Form 1040, line 16b; Form 1040A,
line 12b; or Form 1040NR,
line 17b* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17
and
Form 1040, line 16a; Form 1040A,
line 12a; or Form 1040NR,
line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2013

Form 8606, line 18
and
Form 1040, line 16b; Form 1040A,
line 12b; or Form 1040NR,
line 17b* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17
and
Form 1040, line 16a; Form 1040A,
line 12a; or Form 1040NR,
line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2013

Form 8606, line 25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

*Only include those amounts rolled over to a Roth IRA.
**Only include any contributions (usually Form 1099-R, box 5) that were taxable to you when made and rolled over to a Roth IRA.

Page 74

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

Illustrated Recapture Amount—Allocation Chart
Enter the amount from your 2013 Form 8606,
$85,500
line 19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Before you begin: You will need your prior year Form(s) 8606 and income tax return(s) if you entered an amount on any line(s) as indicated below.
You will now allocate the amount you entered above (2013 Form 8606, line 19) in the order shown, to the amounts on the lines listed below (to the
extent a prior year distribution was not allocable to the amount). The maximum amount you can enter on each line below is the amount entered on
the referenced lines of the form for that year. Note. Once you have allocated the full amount from your 2013 Form 8606, line 19, STOP. See the
Example, earlier.
Tax Year

Your Form

2013

Form 8606, line 20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1998

Form 8606, line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1999

Form 8606, line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2000

Form 8606, line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2001

Form 8606, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2002

Form 8606, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2003

Form 8606, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2004

Form 8606, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2005

Form 8606, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2006

Form 8606, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2007

Form 8606, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2008

Form 8606, line 18
and
Form 1040, line 16b; Form 1040A,
line 12b; or Form 1040NR,
line 17b* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17
and
Form 1040, line 16a; Form 1040A,
line 12a; or Form 1040NR,
line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2009

Form 8606, line 18
and
Form 1040, line 16b; Form 1040A,
line 12b; or Form 1040NR,
line 17b* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17
and
Form 1040, line 16a; Form 1040A,
line 12a; or Form 1040NR,
line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2010

Form 8606, lines 18 and 23 . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, lines 17 and 22 . . . . . . . . . .

2011

Form 8606, line 18
and
Form 1040, line 16b; Form 1040A,
line 12b; or Form 1040NR,
line 17b* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17
and
Form 1040, line 16a; Form 1040A,
line 12a; or Form 1040NR,
line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$10,000

Form 8606, line 22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $55,500

Form 8606, line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$10,000

$10,000

Form 8606, line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $­0­

2012

Form 8606, line 18
and
Form 1040, line 16b; Form 1040A,
line 12b; or Form 1040NR,
line 17b* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17
and
Form 1040, line 16a; Form 1040A,
line 12a; or Form 1040NR,
line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2013

Form 8606, line 18
and
Form 1040, line 16b; Form 1040A,
line 12b; or Form 1040NR,
line 17b* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 17
and
Form 1040, line 16a; Form 1040A,
line 12a; or Form 1040NR,
line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2013

Form 8606, line 25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

*Only include those amounts rolled over to a Roth IRA.
**Only include any contributions (usually Form 1099-R, box 5) that were taxable to you when made and rolled over to a Roth IRA.

How Do You Figure the Taxable Part?
To figure the taxable part of a distribution that is not a
qualified distribution, complete Form 8606, Part III.

Must You Withdraw or Use
Assets?
You are not required to take distributions from your Roth
IRA at any age. The minimum distribution rules that apply
to traditional IRAs do not apply to Roth IRAs while the
owner is alive. However, after the death of a Roth IRA
Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

Page 75

owner, certain of the minimum distribution rules that apply
to traditional IRAs also apply to Roth IRAs as explained
later under Distributions After Owner's Death.
Minimum distributions. You cannot use your Roth
IRA to satisfy minimum distribution requirements for your
traditional IRA. Nor can you use distributions from traditional IRAs for required distributions from Roth IRAs. See
Distributions to beneficiaries, later.

Recognizing Losses on Investments
If you have a loss on your Roth IRA investment, you can
recognize the loss on your income tax return, but only
when all the amounts in all of your Roth IRA accounts
have been distributed to you and the total distributions are
less than your unrecovered basis.
Your basis is the total amount of contributions in your
Roth IRAs.
You claim the loss as a miscellaneous itemized deduction, subject to the 2%-of-adjusted-gross-income limit that
applies to certain miscellaneous itemized deductions on
Schedule A (Form 1040). Any such losses are added
back to taxable income for purposes of calculating the alternative minimum tax.

Distributions After Owner's Death
If a Roth IRA owner dies, the minimum distribution rules
that apply to traditional IRAs apply to Roth IRAs as though
the Roth IRA owner died before his or her required beginning date. See When Can You Withdraw or Use Assets?
in chapter 1.
Distributions to beneficiaries. Generally, the entire interest in the Roth IRA must be distributed by the end of
the fifth calendar year after the year of the owner's death
unless the interest is payable to a designated beneficiary
over the life or life expectancy of the designated beneficiary. (See When Must You Withdraw Assets? (Required
Minimum Distributions) in chapter 1.)
If paid as an annuity, the entire interest must be payable over a period not greater than the designated beneficiary's life expectancy and distributions must begin before
the end of the calendar year following the year of death.
Distributions from another Roth IRA cannot be substituted
for these distributions unless the other Roth IRA was inherited from the same decedent.
If the sole beneficiary is the spouse, he or she can either delay distributions until the decedent would have
reached age 701 2 or treat the Roth IRA as his or her own.
Combining with other Roth IRAs. A beneficiary can
combine an inherited Roth IRA with another Roth IRA
maintained by the beneficiary only if the beneficiary either:
Inherited the other Roth IRA from the same decedent,
or
Was the spouse of the decedent and the sole beneficiary of the Roth IRA and elects to treat it as his or her
own IRA.
Page 76

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

Distributions that are not qualified distributions. If
a distribution to a beneficiary is not a qualified distribution,
it is generally includible in the beneficiary's gross income
in the same manner as it would have been included in the
owner's income had it been distributed to the IRA owner
when he or she was alive.
If the owner of a Roth IRA dies before the end of:
The 5-year period beginning with the first taxable year
for which a contribution was made to a Roth IRA set
up for the owner's benefit, or
The 5-year period starting with the year of a conversion contribution from a traditional IRA or a rollover
from a qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA,
each type of contribution is divided among multiple beneficiaries according to the pro-rata share of each. See Ordering Rules for Distributions, earlier in this chapter under
Are Distributions Taxable.
Example. When Ms. Hibbard died in 2013, her Roth
IRA contained regular contributions of $4,000, a conversion contribution of $10,000 that was made in 2009, and
earnings of $2,000. No distributions had been made from
her IRA. She had no basis in the conversion contribution
in 2009.
When she established this Roth IRA (her first) in 2009,
she named each of her four children as equal beneficiaries. Each child will receive one-fourth of each type of contribution and one-fourth of the earnings. An immediate distribution of $4,000 to each child will be treated as $1,000
from regular contributions, $2,500 from conversion contributions, and $500 from earnings.
In this case, because the distributions are made before
the end of the applicable 5-year period for a qualified distribution, each beneficiary includes $500 in income for
2013. The 10% additional tax on early distributions does
not apply because the distribution was made to the beneficiaries as a result of the death of the IRA owner.
If distributions from an inherited Roth IRA are less
than the required minimum distribution for the
year, discussed in chapter 1 under When Must You Withdraw Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions), you may
have to pay a 50% excise tax for that year on the amount
not distributed as required. For the tax on excess accumulations (insufficient distributions), see Excess Accumulations (Insufficient Distributions) under What Acts Result in
Penalties or Additional Taxes? in chapter 1. If this applies
to you, substitute “Roth IRA” for “traditional IRA” in that
discussion.

!

CAUTION

Contributions are made on behalf of eligible employees.
(See Eligible Employees below.) Contributions are also
subject to various limits. (See How Much Can Be Contributed on Your Behalf, later.)

3.
Savings Incentive Match
Plans for Employees
(SIMPLE)
Introduction
This chapter is for employees who need information about
savings incentive match plans for employees (SIMPLE
plans). It explains what a SIMPLE plan is, contributions to
a SIMPLE plan, and distributions from a SIMPLE plan.
Under a SIMPLE plan, SIMPLE retirement accounts for
participating employees can be set up either as:
Part of a 401(k) plan, or
A plan using IRAs (SIMPLE IRA).
This chapter only discusses the SIMPLE plan rules that
relate to SIMPLE IRAs. See chapter 3 of Publication 560
for information on any special rules for SIMPLE plans that
do not use IRAs.
If your employer maintains a SIMPLE plan, you
must be notified, in writing, that you can choose
the financial institution that will serve as trustee
for your SIMPLE IRA and that you can roll over or transfer
your SIMPLE IRA to another financial institution. See Rollovers and Transfers Exception, later under When Can
You Withdraw or Use Assets.

TIP

What Is a SIMPLE Plan?
A SIMPLE plan is a tax-favored retirement plan that certain small employers (including self-employed individuals)
can set up for the benefit of their employees. See chapter 3 of Publication 560 for information on the requirements employers must satisfy to set up a SIMPLE plan.
A SIMPLE plan is a written agreement (salary reduction
agreement) between you and your employer that allows
you, if you are an eligible employee (including a self-employed individual), to choose to:
Reduce your compensation (salary) by a certain percentage each pay period, and
Have your employer contribute the salary reductions
to a SIMPLE IRA on your behalf. These contributions
are called salary reduction contributions.
All contributions under a SIMPLE IRA plan must be
made to SIMPLE IRAs, not to any other type of IRA. The
SIMPLE IRA can be an individual retirement account or an
individual retirement annuity, described in chapter 1.
Chapter 3

In addition to salary reduction contributions, your employer must make either matching contributions or nonelective contributions. See How Are Contributions Made,
later.

TIP

You may be able to claim a credit for contributions to your SIMPLE plan. For more information,
see chapter 4.

Eligible Employees
You must be allowed to participate in your employer's
SIMPLE plan if you:
Received at least $5,000 in compensation from your
employer during any 2 years prior to the current year,
and
Are reasonably expected to receive at least $5,000 in
compensation during the calendar year for which contributions are made.
Self­employed individual. For SIMPLE plan purposes,
the term employee includes a self-employed individual
who received earned income.
Excludable employees. Your employer can exclude the
following employees from participating in the SIMPLE
plan.
Employees whose retirement benefits are covered by
a collective bargaining agreement (union contract).
Employees who are nonresident aliens and received
no earned income from sources within the United
States.
Employees who would not have been eligible employees if an acquisition, disposition, or similar transaction
had not occurred during the year.
Compensation. For purposes of the SIMPLE plan rules,
your compensation for a year generally includes the following amounts.
Wages, tips, and other pay from your employer that is
subject to income tax withholding.
Deferred amounts elected under any 401(k) plans,
403(b) plans, government (section 457) plans, SEP
plans, and SIMPLE plans.
Self­employed individual compensation. For purposes of the SIMPLE plan rules, if you are self-employed,
your compensation for a year is your net earnings from
self-employment (Schedule SE (Form 1040), Section A,
line 4, or Section B, line 6) before subtracting any contributions made to a SIMPLE IRA on your behalf.
For these purposes, net earnings from self-employment
include services performed while claiming exemption from

Savings Incentive Match Plans for Employees (SIMPLE)

Page 77

self-employment tax as a member of a group
conscientiously opposed to social security benefits.

How Are Contributions Made?
Contributions under a salary reduction agreement are
called salary reduction contributions. They are made on
your behalf by your employer. Your employer must also
make either matching contributions or nonelective contributions.
Salary reduction contributions. During the 60-day period before the beginning of any year, and during the
60-day period before you are eligible, you can choose salary reduction contributions expressed either as a percentage of compensation, or as a specific dollar amount (if
your employer offers this choice). You can choose to cancel the election at any time during the year.
Salary reduction contributions are also referred to as
“elective deferrals.”
Your employer cannot place restrictions on the contributions amount (such as by limiting the contributions percentage), except to comply with the salary reduction contributions limit, discussed under How Much Can Be
Contributed on Your Behalf, later.
Matching contributions. Unless your employer chooses
to make nonelective contributions, your employer must
make contributions equal to the salary reduction contributions you choose (elect), but only up to certain limits. See
How Much Can Be Contributed on Your Behalf below.
These contributions are in addition to the salary reduction
contributions and must be made to the SIMPLE IRAs of all
eligible employees (defined earlier) who chose salary reductions. These contributions are referred to as matching
contributions.
Matching contributions on behalf of a self-employed individual are not treated as salary reduction contributions.
Nonelective contributions. Instead of making matching
contributions, your employer may be able to choose to
make nonelective contributions on behalf of all eligible
employees. These nonelective contributions must be
made on behalf of each eligible employee who has at
least $5,000 of compensation from your employer,
whether or not the employee chose salary reductions.
One of the requirements your employer must satisfy is
notifying the employees that the election was made. For
other requirements that your employer must satisfy, see
chapter 3 of Publication 560.

How Much Can Be Contributed
on Your Behalf?
The limits on contributions to a SIMPLE IRA vary with the
type of contribution that is made.

Page 78

Chapter 3

Salary reduction contributions limit. Salary reduction
contributions (employee-chosen contributions or elective
deferrals) that your employer can make on your behalf under a SIMPLE plan are limited to $12,000 for 2013. The
limitation remains at $12,000 for 2014.
If you are a participant in any other employer
plans during 2013 and you have elective salary
CAUTION
reductions or deferred compensation under those
plans, the salary reduction contributions under the SIMPLE plan also are included in the annual limit of $17,500
for 2013 on exclusions of salary reductions and other
elective deferrals. You, not your employer, are responsible for monitoring compliance with these limits.

!

Additional elective deferrals can be contributed to your
SIMPLE plan if:
You reached age 50 by the end of 2013, and
No other elective deferrals can be made for you to the
plan for the year because of limits or restrictions, such
as the regular annual limit.
The most that can be contributed in additional elective
deferrals to your SIMPLE plan is the lesser of the following
two amounts.
$2,500 for 2013, or
Your compensation for the year reduced by your other
elective deferrals for the year.
The additional deferrals are not subject to any other
contribution limit and are not taken into account in applying other contribution limits. The additional deferrals are
not subject to the nondiscrimination rules as long as all eligible participants are allowed to make them.
Matching employer contributions limit. Generally,
your employer must make matching contributions to your
SIMPLE IRA in an amount equal to your salary reduction
contributions. These matching contributions cannot be
more than 3% of your compensation for the calendar year.
See Matching contributions less than 3% below.
Example 1. In 2013, Joshua was a participant in his
employer's SIMPLE plan. His compensation, before SIMPLE plan contributions, was $41,600 ($800 per week). Instead of taking it all in cash, Joshua elected to have
12.5% of his weekly pay ($100) contributed to his SIMPLE
IRA. For the full year, Joshua's salary reduction contributions were $5,200, which is less than the $12,000 limit on
these contributions.
Under the plan, Joshua's employer was required to
make matching contributions to Joshua's SIMPLE IRA.
Because his employer's matching contributions must
equal Joshua's salary reductions, but cannot be more
than 3% of his compensation (before salary reductions)
for the year, his employer's matching contribution was
limited to $1,248 (3% of $41,600).
Example 2. Assume the same facts as in Example 1,
except that Joshua's compensation for the year was

Savings Incentive Match Plans for Employees (SIMPLE)

$408,163 and he chose to have 2.94% of his weekly pay
contributed to his SIMPLE IRA.
In this example, Joshua's salary reduction contributions
for the year (2.94% × $408,163) were equal to the 2013
limit for salary reduction contributions ($12,000). Because
3% of Joshua's compensation ($12,245) is more than the
amount his employer was required to match ($12,000), his
employer's matching contributions were limited to
$12,000.
In this example, total contributions made on Joshua's
behalf for the year were $24,000 ($12,000 (Joshua's contributions) + $12,000 (matching contributions)), the maximum contributions permitted under a SIMPLE IRA for
2013.
Matching contributions less than 3%. Your employer can reduce the 3% limit on matching contributions
for a calendar year, but only if:
1. The limit is not reduced below 1%,
2. The limit is not reduced for more than 2 years out of
the 5-year period that ends with (and includes) the
year for which the election is effective, and
3. Employees are notified of the reduced limit within a
reasonable period of time before the 60-day election
period during which they can enter into salary reduction agreements.
For purposes of applying the rule in item (2) in determining whether the limit was reduced below 3% for the
year, any year before the first year in which your employer
(or a former employer) maintains a SIMPLE IRA plan will
be treated as a year for which the limit was 3%. If your employer chooses to make nonelective contributions for a
year, that year also will be treated as a year for which the
limit was 3%.
Nonelective employer contributions limit. If your employer chooses to make nonelective contributions, instead
of matching contributions, to each eligible employee's
SIMPLE IRA, contributions must be 2% of your compensation for the entire year. For 2013, only $255,000 of your
compensation can be taken into account to figure the contribution limit.
Your employer can substitute the 2% nonelective contribution for the matching contribution for a year if both of
the following requirements are met.
Eligible employees are notified that a 2% nonelective
contribution will be made instead of a matching contribution.
This notice is provided within a reasonable period during which employees can enter into salary reduction
agreements.
Example 3. Assume the same facts as in Example 2,
except that Joshua's employer chose to make nonelective
contributions instead of matching contributions. Because
his employer's nonelective contributions are limited to 2%
of up to $255,000 of Joshua's compensation, his employer's contribution to Joshua's SIMPLE IRA was limited to
$5,100. In this example, total contributions made on
Chapter 3

Joshua's behalf for the year were $17,100 (Joshua's salary reductions of $12,000 plus his employer's contribution
of $5,100).
Traditional IRA mistakenly moved to SIMPLE IRA.
If you mistakenly roll over or transfer an amount from a traditional IRA to a SIMPLE IRA, you can later recharacterize
the amount as a contribution to another traditional IRA.
For more information, see Recharacterizations in chapter 1.
Recharacterizing employer contributions. You cannot
recharacterize employer contributions (including elective
deferrals) under a SEP or SIMPLE plan as contributions to
another IRA. SEPs are discussed in chapter 2 of Publication 560. SIMPLE plans are discussed in this chapter.
Converting from a SIMPLE IRA. Generally, you can
convert an amount in your SIMPLE IRA to a Roth IRA under the same rules explained in chapter 1 under Converting From Any Traditional IRA Into a Roth IRA.
However, you cannot convert any amount distributed
from the SIMPLE IRA during the 2-year period beginning
on the date you first participated in any SIMPLE IRA plan
maintained by your employer.

When Can You Withdraw
or Use Assets?
Generally, the same distribution (withdrawal) rules that
apply to traditional IRAs apply to SIMPLE IRAs. These
rules are discussed in chapter 1.
Your employer cannot restrict you from taking distributions from a SIMPLE IRA.

Are Distributions Taxable?
Generally, distributions from a SIMPLE IRA are fully taxable as ordinary income. If the distribution is an early distribution (discussed in chapter 1), it may be subject to the
additional tax on early distributions. See Additional Tax on
Early Distributions, later.

Rollovers and Transfers Exception
Generally, rollovers and trustee-to-trustee transfers are
not taxable distributions.
Two­year rule. To qualify as a tax-free rollover (or a
tax-free trustee-to-trustee transfer), a rollover distribution
(or a transfer) made from a SIMPLE IRA during the 2-year
period beginning on the date on which you first participated in your employer's SIMPLE plan must be contributed
(or transferred) to another SIMPLE IRA. The 2-year period
begins on the first day on which contributions made by
your employer are deposited in your SIMPLE IRA.
After the 2-year period, amounts in a SIMPLE IRA can
be rolled over or transferred tax free to an IRA other than a
SIMPLE IRA, or to a qualified plan, a tax-sheltered annuity

Savings Incentive Match Plans for Employees (SIMPLE)

Page 79

plan (section 403(b) plan), or deferred compensation plan
of a state or local government (section 457 plan).

compensation plan, or an IRA, you can claim the credit if
all of the following apply.

Additional Tax on Early Distributions

1. You were born before January 2, 1996.

The additional tax on early distributions (discussed in
chapter 1) applies to SIMPLE IRAs. If a distribution is an
early distribution and occurs during the 2-year period following the date on which you first participated in your employer's SIMPLE plan, the additional tax on early distributions is increased from 10% to 25%.
If a rollover distribution (or transfer) from a SIMPLE IRA
does not satisfy the 2-year rule, and is otherwise an early
distribution, the additional tax imposed because of the
early distribution is increased from 10% to 25% of the
amount distributed.

2. You are not a full-time student (explained next).
3. No one else, such as your parent(s), claims an exemption for you on their tax return.
4. Your adjusted gross income (defined below) is not
more than:
a. $59,000 if your filing status is married filing jointly,
b. $44,250 if your filing status is head of household,
or
c. $29,500 if your filing status is single, married filing
separately, or qualifying widow(er).
Full-time student. You are a full-time student if, during some part of each of 5 calendar months (not necessarily consecutive) during the calendar year, you are either:
A full-time student at a school that has a regular
teaching staff, course of study, and regularly enrolled
body of students in attendance, or

4.
Retirement Savings
Contributions Credit
(Saver's Credit)
What's New
Modified AGI limit for retirement savings contributions credit increased. For 2013, you may be able to
claim the retirement savings contributions credit if your
modified AGI is not more than:
$59,000 if your filing status is married filing jointly,
$44,250 if your filing status is head of household, or
$29,500 if your filing status is single, married filing
separately, or qualifying widow(er).

Introduction

A student taking a full-time, on-farm training course
given by either a school that has a regular teaching
staff, course of study, and regularly enrolled body of
students in attendance, or a state, county, or local
government.
You are a full-time student if you are enrolled for the number of hours or courses the school considers to be full
time.
Adjusted gross income. This is generally the amount
on line 38 of your 2013 Form 1040; line 22 of your 2013
Form 1040A; or line 37 of your 2013 Form 1040NR. However, you must add to that amount any exclusion or deduction claimed for the year for:
Foreign earned income,
Foreign housing costs,
Income for bona fide residents of American Samoa,
and
Income from Puerto Rico.
Eligible contributions. These include:

You may be able to take a tax credit if you make eligible
contributions (defined later) to a qualified retirement plan,
an eligible deferred compensation plan, or an individual
retirement arrangement (IRA). You may be able to take a
credit of up to $1,000 (up to $2,000 if filing jointly). This
credit could reduce the federal income tax you pay dollar
for dollar.

1. Contributions to a traditional or Roth IRA,
2. Salary reduction contributions (elective deferrals, including amounts designated as after-tax Roth contributions) to:
a. A 401(k) plan (including a SIMPLE 401(k)),
b. A section 403(b) annuity,
c. An eligible deferred compensation plan of a state
or local government (a governmental 457 plan),

Can you claim the credit? If you make eligible contributions to a qualified retirement plan, an eligible deferred
Page 80

Chapter 4

d. A SIMPLE IRA plan, or
e. A salary reduction SEP, and

Retirement Savings Contributions Credit (Saver's Credit)

3. Contributions to a section 501(c)(18) plan.
They also include voluntary after-tax employee contributions to a tax-qualified retirement plan or section 403(b)
annuity. For purposes of the credit, an employee contribution will be voluntary as long as it is not required as a condition of employment.
Reducing eligible contributions. Reduce your eligible
contributions (but not below zero) by the total distributions
you received during the testing period (defined later) from
any IRA, plan, or annuity included above under Eligible
contributions. Also reduce your eligible contributions by
any distribution from a Roth IRA that is not rolled over,
even if the distribution is not taxable.
Do not reduce your eligible contributions by any of the
following.
1. The portion of any distribution which is not includible
in income because it is a trustee-to-trustee transfer or
a rollover distribution.
2. Distributions that are taxable as the result of an
in-plan rollover to your designated Roth account.
3. Any distribution that is a return of a contribution to an
IRA (including a Roth IRA) made during the year for
which you claim the credit if:
a. The distribution is made before the due date (including extensions) of your tax return for that year,
b. You do not take a deduction for the contribution,
and
c. The distribution includes any income attributable
to the contribution.
4. Loans from a qualified employer plan treated as a distribution.
5. Distributions of excess contributions or deferrals (and
income attributable to excess contributions and deferrals).
6. Distributions of dividends paid on stock held by an
employee stock ownership plan under section 404(k).

received a taxable distribution from a qualified plan in
2011 and a taxable distribution from an eligible deferred
compensation plan in 2012. Your spouse received taxable
distributions from a Roth IRA in 2013 and tax-free distributions from a Roth IRA in 2014 before April 15. You made
eligible contributions to an IRA in 2013 and you otherwise
qualify for this credit. You must reduce the amount of your
qualifying contributions in 2013 by the total of the distributions you received in 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014.
Maximum eligible contributions. After your contributions are reduced, the maximum annual contribution on
which you can base the credit is $2,000 per person.
Effect on other credits. The amount of this credit will
not change the amount of your refundable tax credits. A
refundable tax credit, such as the earned income credit or
the refundable amount of your child tax credit, is an
amount that you would receive as a refund even if you did
not otherwise owe any taxes.
Maximum credit. This is a nonrefundable credit. The
amount of the credit in any year cannot be more than the
amount of tax that you would otherwise pay (not counting
any refundable credits) in any year. If your tax liability is
reduced to zero because of other nonrefundable credits,
such as the credit for child and dependent care expenses,
then you will not be entitled to this credit.
How to figure and report the credit. The amount of the
credit you can get is based on the contributions you make
and your credit rate. Your credit rate can be as low as
10% or as high as 50%. Your credit rate depends on your
income and your filing status. See Form 8880 to determine your credit rate.
The maximum contribution taken into account is $2,000
per person. On a joint return, up to $2,000 is taken into account for each spouse.
Figure the credit on Form 8880. Report the credit on
line 50 of your Form 1040; line 32 of your Form 1040A; or
line 47 of your Form 1040NR and attach Form 8880 to
your return.

7. Distributions from an eligible retirement plan that are
converted or rolled over to a Roth IRA.
8. Distributions from a military retirement plan.
9. Distributions from an inherited IRA by a nonspousal
beneficiary.
Distributions received by spouse. Any distributions
your spouse receives are treated as received by you if you
file a joint return with your spouse both for the year of the
distribution and for the year for which you claim the credit.
Testing period. The testing period consists of the
year for which you claim the credit, the period after the
end of that year and before the due date (including extensions) for filing your return for that year, and the 2 tax
years before that year.
Example. You and your spouse filed joint returns in
2011 and 2012, and plan to do so in 2013 and 2014. You

5.
How To Get Tax Help
Whether it's help with a tax issue, preparing your tax return or a need for a free publication or form, get the help
you need the way you want it: online, use a smart phone,
call or walk in to an IRS office or volunteer site near you.
Free help with your tax return. You can get free help
preparing your return nationwide from IRS-certified volunteers. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program helps low-to-moderate income, elderly, people with
disabilities, and limited English proficient taxpayers. The
Chapter 5

How To Get Tax Help

Page 81

Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) program helps taxpayers age 60 and older with their tax returns. Most VITA
and TCE sites offer free electronic filing and all volunteers
will let you know about credits and deductions you may be
entitled to claim. In addition, some VITA and TCE sites
provide taxpayers the opportunity to prepare their own return with help from an IRS-certified volunteer. To find the
nearest VITA or TCE site, you can use the VITA Locator
Tool on IRS.gov, download the IRS2Go app, or call
1-800-906-9887.
As part of the TCE program, AARP offers the Tax-Aide
counseling program. To find the nearest AARP Tax-Aide
site, visit AARP's website at www.aarp.org/money/taxaide
or call 1-888-227-7669. For more information on these
programs, go to IRS.gov and enter “VITA” in the search
box.
Internet. IRS.gov and IRS2Go are ready when you
are —24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Download the free IRS2Go app from the iTunes app
store or from Google Play. Use it to check your refund
status, order transcripts of your tax returns or tax account, watch the IRS YouTube channel, get IRS news
as soon as it's released to the public, subscribe to filing season updates or daily tax tips, and follow the
IRS Twitter news feed, @IRSnews, to get the latest
federal tax news, including information about tax law
changes and important IRS programs.
Check the status of your 2013 refund with the Where's
My Refund? application on IRS.gov or download the
IRS2Go app and select the Refund Status option. The
IRS issues more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less than
21 days. Using these applications, you can start
checking on the status of your return within 24 hours
after we receive your e-filed return or 4 weeks after
you mail a paper return. You will also be given a personalized refund date as soon as the IRS processes
your tax return and approves your refund. The IRS updates Where's My Refund? every 24 hours, usually
overnight, so you only need to check once a day.
Use the Interactive Tax Assistant (ITA) to research
your tax questions. No need to wait on the phone or
stand in line. The ITA is available 24 hours a day, 7
days a week, and provides you with a variety of tax information related to general filing topics, deductions,
credits, and income. When you reach the response
screen, you can print the entire interview and the final
response for your records. New subject areas are
added on a regular basis.
Answers not provided through ITA may be found in
Tax Trails, one of the Tax Topics on IRS.gov which
contain general individual and business tax information or by searching the IRS Tax Map, which includes
an international subject index. You can use the IRS
Tax Map, to search publications and instructions by
topic or keyword. The IRS Tax Map integrates forms
and publications into one research tool and provides
single-point access to tax law information by subject.
When the user searches the IRS Tax Map, they will be
provided with links to related content in existing IRS
Page 82

Chapter 5

How To Get Tax Help

publications, forms and instructions, questions and
answers, and Tax Topics.
Coming this filing season, you can immediately view
and print for free all 5 types of individual federal tax
transcripts (tax returns, tax account, record of account, wage and income statement, and certification
of non-filing) using Get Transcript. You can also ask
the IRS to mail a return or an account transcript to
you. Only the mail option is available by choosing the
Tax Records option on the IRS2Go app by selecting
Mail Transcript on IRS.gov or by calling
1-800-908-9946. Tax return and tax account transcripts are generally available for the current year and
the past three years.
Determine if you are eligible for the EITC and estimate
the amount of the credit with the Earned Income Tax
Credit (EITC) Assistant.
Visit Understanding Your IRS Notice or Letter to get
answers to questions about a notice or letter you received from the IRS.
If you received the First Time Homebuyer Credit, you
can use the First Time Homebuyer Credit Account
Look­up tool for information on your repayments and
account balance.
Check the status of your amended return using
Where's My Amended Return? Go to IRS.gov and enter Where's My Amended Return? in the search box.
You can generally expect your amended return to be
processed up to 12 weeks from the date we receive it.
It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you mailed it to
show up in our system.
Make a payment using one of several safe and convenient electronic payment options available on
IRS.gov. Select the Payment tab on the front page of
IRS.gov for more information.
Determine if you are eligible and apply for an online
payment agreement, if you owe more tax than you can
pay today.
Figure your income tax withholding with the IRS
Withholding Calculator on IRS.gov. Use it if you've
had too much or too little withheld, your personal situation has changed, you're starting a new job or you
just want to see if you're having the right amount withheld.
Determine if you might be subject to the Alternative
Minimum Tax by using the Alternative Minimum Tax
Assistant on IRS.gov.
Request an Electronic Filing PIN by going to
IRS.gov and entering Electronic Filing PIN in the
search box.
Download forms, instructions and publications, including accessible versions for people with disabilities.
Locate the nearest Taxpayer Assistance Center
(TAC) using the Office Locator tool on IRS.gov, or
choose the Contact Us option on the IRS2Go app and
search Local Offices. An employee can answer

questions about your tax account or help you set up a
payment plan. Before you visit, check the Office Locator on IRS.gov, or Local Offices under Contact Us on
IRS2Go to confirm the address, phone number, days
and hours of operation, and the services provided. If
you have a special need, such as a disability, you can
request an appointment. Call the local number listed
in the Office Locator, or look in the phone book under
United States Government, Internal Revenue Service.
Apply for an Employer Identification Number (EIN).
Go to IRS.gov and enter Apply for an EIN in the
search box.
Read the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, or other
official guidance.
Read Internal Revenue Bulletins.
Sign up to receive local and national tax news and
more by email. Just click on “subscriptions” above the
search box on IRS.gov and choose from a variety of
options.
Phone. You can call the IRS, or you can carry it in your
pocket with the IRS2Go app on your smart phone or tablet. Download the free IRS2Go app from the iTunes app
store or from Google Play.
Call to locate the nearest volunteer help site,
1-800-906-9887 or you can use the VITA Locator Tool
on IRS.gov, or download the IRS2Go app.
Low-to-moderate income, elderly, people with disabilities, and limited English proficient taxpayers can get
free help with their tax return from the nationwide Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program. The
Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) program helps
taxpayers age 60 and older with their tax returns. Most
VITA and TCE sites offer free electronic filing. Some
VITA and TCE sites provide IRS-certified volunteers
who can help prepare your tax return. Through the
TCE program, AARP offers the Tax-Aide counseling
program; call 1-888-227-7669 to find the nearest
Tax-Aide location.
Call the automated Where's My Refund? information
hotline to check the status of your 2013 refund 24
hours a day, 7 days a week at 1-800-829-1954. If you
e-file, you can start checking on the status of your return within 24 hours after the IRS receives your tax return or 4 weeks after you've mailed a paper return.
The IRS issues more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less
than 21 days. Where's My Refund? will give you a personalized refund date as soon as the IRS processes
your tax return and approves your refund. Before you
call this automated hotline, have your 2013 tax return
handy so you can enter your social security number,
your filing status, and the exact whole dollar amount of
your refund. The IRS updates Where's My Refund?
every 24 hours, usually overnight, so you only need to
check once a day. Note, the above information is for
our automated hotline. Our live phone and walk-in assistors can research the status of your refund only if
it's been 21 days or more since you filed electronically

or more than 6 weeks since you mailed your paper return.
Call the Amended Return Hotline, 1-866-464-2050, to
check the status of your amended return. You can
generally expect your amended return to be processed up to 12 weeks from the date we receive it. It
can take up to 3 weeks from the date you mailed it to
show up in our system.
Call 1-800-TAX-FORM (1-800-829-3676) to order current-year forms, instructions, publications, and
prior-year forms and instructions (limited to 5 years).
You should receive your order within 10 business
days.
Call TeleTax, 1-800-829-4477, to listen to pre-recorded messages covering general and business tax information. If, between January and April 15, you still
have questions about the Form 1040, 1040A, or
1040EZ (like filing requirements, dependents, credits,
Schedule D, pensions and IRAs or self-employment
taxes), call 1-800-829-1040.
Call using TTY/TDD equipment, 1-800-829-4059 to
ask tax questions or order forms and publications. The
TTY/TDD telephone number is for people who are
deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability.
These individuals can also contact the IRS through relay services such as the Federal Relay Service.
Walk­in. You can find a selection of forms, publications
and services — in-person.
Products. You can walk in to some post offices, libraries, and IRS offices to pick up certain forms, instructions, and publications. Some IRS offices, libraries,
and city and county government offices have a collection of products available to photocopy from reproducible proofs.
Services. You can walk in to your local TAC for
face-to-face tax help. An employee can answer questions about your tax account or help you set up a payment plan. Before visiting, use the Office Locator tool
on IRS.gov, or choose the Contact Us option on the
IRS2Go app and search Local Offices for days and
hours of operation, and services provided.
Mail. You can send your order for forms, instructions,
and publications to the address below. You should receive a response within 10 business days after your request is received.
Internal Revenue Service
1201 N. Mitsubishi Motorway
Bloomington, IL 61705-6613
The Taxpayer Advocate Service Is Here to Help You. The
Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is your voice at the
IRS. Our job is to ensure that every taxpayer is treated
fairly and that you know and understand your rights.

Chapter 5

How To Get Tax Help

Page 83

What can TAS do for you? We can offer you free help with
IRS problems that you can't resolve on your own. We
know this process can be confusing, but the worst thing
you can do is nothing at all! TAS can help if you can't resolve your tax problem and:
Your problem is causing financial difficulties for you,
your family, or your business.
You face (or your business is facing) an immediate
threat of adverse action.
You've tried repeatedly to contact the IRS but no one
has responded, or the IRS hasn't responded by the
date promised.
If you qualify for our help, you'll be assigned to one advocate who'll be with you at every turn and will do everything
possible to resolve your problem. Here's why we can help:
TAS is an independent organization within the IRS.
Our advocates know how to work with the IRS.
Our services are free and tailored to meet your needs.
We have offices in every state, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.

Page 84

Chapter 5

How To Get Tax Help

How can you reach us? If you think TAS can help you, call
your local advocate, whose number is in your local directory and at Taxpayer Advocate, or call us toll-free at
1-877-777-4778.
How else does TAS help taxpayers?
TAS also works to resolve large-scale, systemic problems
that affect many taxpayers. If you know of one of these
broad issues, please report it to us through our Systemic
Advocacy Management System.

Low Income Taxpayer Clinics
Low Income Taxpayer Clinics (LITCs) serve individuals
whose income is below a certain level and need to resolve
tax problems such as audits, appeals and tax collection
disputes. Some clinics can provide information about taxpayer rights and responsibilities in different languages for
individuals who speak English as a second language. Visit
Taxpayer Advocate or see IRS Publication 4134, Low Income Taxpayer Clinic List.

Appendices
To help you complete your tax return,
use the following appendices that include worksheets and tables.
1. Appendix A — Summary Record
of Traditional IRA(s) for 2013 and
Worksheet for Determining Required Minimum Distributions.
2. Appendix B — Worksheets you
use if you receive social security
benefits and are subject to the
IRA deduction phaseout rules. A
filled-in example is included.

Publication 590 (2013)

a. Worksheet 1, Computation of
Modified AGI.
b. Worksheet 2, Computation of
Traditional IRA Deduction for
2013.
c. Worksheet 3, Computation of
Taxable Social Security Benefits.
d. Comprehensive Example and
completed worksheets.

to assist you in computing your required minimum distribution
amount if you have not taken all
your assets from all your traditional IRAs before age 701 2.
a. Table I (Single Life Expectancy).
b. Table II (Joint Life and Last
Survivor Expectancy).
c. Table III (Uniform Lifetime).

3. Appendix C — Life Expectancy
Tables. These tables are included

Page 85

Appendix A. Summary Record of Traditional IRA(s) for
2013

Keep for Your Records

Name ______________________________________
I was covered not covered by my employer's retirement plan during the year.
I became 591 2 on ______________________________________(month) (day) (year)
I became 701 2 on ______________________________________(month) (day) (year)
Contributions

Name of traditional IRA

Date

Amount contributed for
2013

Check if
Fair Market Value of IRA as
rollover
of December 31, 2013,
contribution
from Form 5498

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
Total
Total contributions deducted on tax return

............................................. $

Total contributions treated as nondeductible on Form 8606 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
Distributions

Name of
traditional IRA

Date

Amount of
Distribution

Reason (for
example,
retirement,
rollover,
conversion,
withdrawal of
excess
contributions)

Income
earned
on IRA

Taxable
amount
reported on
income tax
return

Nontaxable amount from
Form 8606, line 13

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
Total
Basis of all traditional IRAs for 2013 and earlier years (from Form 8606, line 14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

Note. You should keep copies of your income tax return, and Forms W­2, 8606, and 5498.

Page 86

Publication 590 (2013)

Appendix A. (Continued) Worksheet for Determining
Required Minimum Distributions
1. Age

Keep for Your Records

701 2

711 2

721 2

731 2

741 2

751 2

761 2

771 2

781 2

791 2

801 2

811 2

821 2

831 2

841 2

851 2

861 2

871 2

881 2

891 2

2. Year age was reached
3. Value of IRA at the close of business on
December 31 of the year immediately prior to the
year on line 21
4. Distribution period from Table III or life expectancy
from Life Expectancy Table I or Table II2
5. Required distribution (divide line 3 by line 4)3

1. Age
2. Year age was reached
3. Value of IRA at the close of business on
December 31 of the year immediately prior to the
year on line 21
4. Distribution period from Table III or life expectancy
from Life Expectancy Table I or Table II2
5. Required distribution (divide line 3 by line 4)3

1. Age
2. Year age was reached
3. Value of IRA at the close of business on
December 31 of the year immediately prior to the
year on line 21
4. Distribution period from Table III or life expectancy
from Life Expectancy Table I or Table II2
5. Required distribution (divide line 3 by line 4)3

1. Age
2. Year age was reached
3. Value of IRA at the close of business on
December 31 of the year immediately prior to the
year on line 21
4. Distribution period from Table III or life expectancy
from Life Expectancy Table I or Table II2
5. Required distribution (divide line 3 by line 4)3

If you have more than one IRA, you must figure the required distribution separately for each IRA.

1

Use the appropriate life expectancy or distribution period for each year and for each IRA.

2

3
If you have more than one IRA, you must withdraw an amount equal to the total of the required distributions figured for each
IRA. You can, however, withdraw the total from one IRA or from more than one IRA.

Publication 590 (2013)

Page 87

Appendix B. Worksheets for Social Security Recipients
Who Contribute to a Traditional IRA

Keep for Your Records

If you receive social security benefits, have taxable compensation, contribute to your traditional IRA, and you or your spouse
is covered by an employer retirement plan, complete the following worksheets. (See Are You Covered by an Employer Plan?
in chapter 1.)
Use Worksheet 1 to figure your modified adjusted gross income. This amount is needed in the computation of your IRA
deduction, if any, which is figured using Worksheet 2.
The IRA deduction figured using Worksheet 2 is entered on your tax return.
Worksheet 1
Computation of Modified AGI
(For use only by taxpayers who receive social security benefits)
Filing Status — Check only one box:
A. Married filing jointly
B. Single, Head of Household, Qualifying Widow(er), or Married filing separately and
lived apart from your spouse during the entire year
C. Married filing separately and lived with your spouse at any time during the year
1. Adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040 or Form 1040A
(For purposes of this worksheet, figure your AGI without taking into account any social security
benefits from Form SSA-1099 or RRB-1099, any deduction for contributions to a traditional
IRA, any student loan interest deduction, any tuition and fees deduction, any domestic
production activities deduction, or any exclusion of interest from savings bonds to be reported
on Form 8815.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Enter the amount in box 5 of all Forms SSA-1099 and Forms RRB-1099 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Enter one-half of line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Enter the amount of any foreign earned income exclusion, foreign housing exclusion, U.S.
possessions income exclusion, exclusion of income from Puerto Rico you claimed as a bona
fide resident of Puerto Rico, or exclusion of employer-provided adoption benefits . . . . . . . . . .
5. Enter the amount of any tax-exempt interest reported on line 8b of Form 1040 or 1040A . . . . .
6. Add lines 1, 3, 4, and 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7. Enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
$32,000 if you checked box A above.
$25,000 if you checked box B above.
$0 if you checked box C above. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8. Subtract line 7 from line 6. If zero or less, enter -0- on this line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9. If line 8 is zero, skip to line 17, enter -0-, and continue with line 18.
If line 8 is more than zero, enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
$12,000 if you checked box A above.
$9,000 if you checked box B above.
$0 if you checked box C above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10. Subtract line 9 from line 8. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11. Enter the smaller of line 8 or line 9

...................................................

12. Enter one-half of line 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13. Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
14. Multiply line 10 by .85. If line 10 is zero, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15. Add lines 13 and 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16. Multiply line 2 by .85 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

7.
8.

9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

16.
17. Taxable benefits to be included in modified AGI for traditional IRA deduction purposes.
Enter the smaller of line 15 or line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17.
18. Enter the amount of any employer-provided adoption benefits exclusion and any foreign
earned income exclusion and foreign housing exclusion or deduction that you claimed . . . . . 18.
19. Modified AGI for determining your reduced traditional IRA deduction — add lines 1, 17, and
18. Enter here and on line 2 of Worksheet 2, next . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19.

Page 88

Publication 590 (2013)

Appendix B. (Continued)

Keep for Your Records

Worksheet 2
Computation of Traditional IRA Deduction For 2013
(For use only by taxpayers who receive social security benefits)
IF your filing status is ...

AND your modified AGI is over ...

THEN enter on line 1
below ...

married filing jointly or
qualifying widow(er)

$95,000*

$115,000

married filing jointly (you
are not covered by an
employer plan but your
spouse is)

$178,000*

$188,000

single, or head of
household

$59,000*

$69,000

$0*

$10,000

married filing
separately**

*If your modified AGI is not over this amount, you can take an IRA deduction for your contributions of up to the lesser
of $5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older) or your taxable compensation. Skip this worksheet, proceed to
Worksheet 3, and enter your IRA deduction on line 2 of Worksheet 3.
**If you did not live with your spouse at any time during the year, consider your filing status as single.
Note. If you were married and you or your spouse worked and you both contributed to IRAs, figure the deduction for
each of you separately.
1.
2.
3.
4.

5.

6.
7.
8.

Enter the applicable amount from above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter your modified AGI from Worksheet 1, line 19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note. If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here; your traditional
IRA contributions are not deductible. Proceed to Worksheet 3.
Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result is not a multiple of
$10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example, $611.40 is rounded to
$620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter $200.
Married filing jointly or qualifying widow(er) and you are
covered by an employer plan, multiply line 3 by 27.5%
(.275) (by 32.5% (.325) if you are age 50 or older).
..................
All others, multiply line 3 by 55% (.55) (by 65% (.65) if you
are age 50 or older).
Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Form 1040 or Form 1040NR, line 27
(deductible part of self-employment tax) and line 28 (self-employed SEP, SIMPLE, and
qualified plans). If you are the lower-income spouse, include your spouse's
compensation reduced by his or her traditional IRA and Roth IRA contributions for this
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter contributions you made, or plan to make, to your traditional IRA for 2013, but do not
enter more than $5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount here (or a smaller
amount if you choose). Enter this amount on the Form 1040 or 1040A line for your IRA. (If
the amount on line 6 is more than the amount on line 7, complete line 8.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nondeductible contributions. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or 6, whichever is smaller.
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606, Nondeductible IRAs. . . . . . . . . . . . .

Publication 590 (2013)

1.
2.
3.

4.

5.
6.
7.
8.

Page 89

Appendix B. (Continued)

Keep for Your Records

Worksheet 3
Computation of Taxable Social Security Benefits
(For use by taxpayers who receive social security benefits and take a traditional IRA
deduction)
Filing Status — Check only one box:
A. Married filing jointly
B. Single, Head of Household, Qualifying Widow(er), or Married filing separately
and lived apart from your spouse during the entire year
C. Married filing separately and lived with your spouse at any time during the
year
1. Adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040 or Form 1040A
(For purposes of this worksheet, figure your AGI without taking into account any IRA
deduction, any student loan interest deduction, any tuition and fees deduction, any
domestic production activities deduction, any social security benefits from Form
SSA-1099 or RRB-1099, or any exclusion of interest from savings bonds to be reported
on Form 8815.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
2. Deduction(s) from line 7 of Worksheet(s) 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Enter amount in box 5 of all Forms SSA-1099 and Forms RRB-1099 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
5. Enter one-half of line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
6. Enter the amount of any foreign earned income exclusion, foreign housing exclusion,
exclusion of income from U.S. possessions, exclusion of income from Puerto Rico you
claimed as a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico, or exclusion of employer-provided
adoption benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
7. Enter the amount of any tax-exempt interest reported on line 8b of Form 1040 or
1040A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
8. Add lines 3, 5, 6, and 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.
9. Enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
$32,000 if you checked box A above.
$25,000 if you checked box B above.
$0 if you checked box C above. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.
10. Subtract line 9 from line 8. If zero or less, enter -0- on this line. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.
11. If line 10 is zero, stop here. None of your social security benefits are taxable.
If line 10 is more than zero, enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
$12,000 if you checked box A above.
$9,000 if you checked box B above.
$0 if you checked box C above. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.
12. Subtract line 11 from line 10. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.
13. Enter the smaller of line 10 or line 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.
14. Enter one-half of line 13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.
15. Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.
16. Multiply line 12 by .85. If line 12 is zero, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.
17. Add lines 15 and 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17.
18. Multiply line 4 by .85 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.
19. Taxable social security benefits. Enter the smaller of line 17 or line 18

Page 90

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 19.

Publication 590 (2013)

Appendix B. (Continued)

Keep for Your Records

Comprehensive Example
Determining Your Traditional IRA Deduction and
the Taxable Portion of Your Social Security Benefits
John Black is married and files a joint return. He is 65 years old and had 2013 wages of $89,500. His wife did not work in
2013. He also received social security benefits of $12,000 and made a $6,000 contribution to his traditional IRA for the year.
He had no foreign income, no tax-exempt interest, and no adjustments to income on lines 23 through 36 on his Form 1040.
He participated in a section 401(k) retirement plan at work.
John completes worksheets 1 and 2. Worksheet 2 shows that his 2013 IRA deduction is $4,980. He must either withdraw
the contributions that are more than the deduction (the $1,020 shown on line 8 of Worksheet 2), or treat the excess amounts
as nondeductible contributions (in which case he must complete Form 8606 and attach it to his Form 1040).
The completed worksheets that follow show how John figured his modified AGI to determine the IRA deduction and the
taxable social security benefits to report on his Form 1040.
Worksheet 1
Computation of Modified AGI
(For use only by taxpayers who receive social security benefits)
Filing Status — Check only one box:
A. Married filing jointly
B. Single, Head of Household, Qualifying Widow(er), or Married filing separately and
lived apart from your spouse during the entire year
C. Married filing separately and lived with your spouse at any time during the year
1. Adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040 or Form 1040A
(For purposes of this worksheet, figure your AGI without taking into account any social security
benefits from Form SSA-1099 or RRB-1099, any deduction for contributions to a traditional
IRA, any student loan interest deduction, any tuition and fees deduction, any domestic
production activities deduction, or any exclusion of interest from savings bonds to be reported
on Form 8815.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Enter the amount in box 5 of all Forms SSA-1099 and Forms RRB-1099 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Enter one-half of line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Enter the amount of any foreign earned income exclusion, foreign housing exclusion, U.S.
possessions income exclusion, exclusion of income from Puerto Rico you claimed as a bona
fide resident of Puerto Rico, or exclusion of employer-provided adoption benefits . . . . . . . . . .
5. Enter the amount of any tax-exempt interest reported on line 8b of Form 1040 or 1040A . . . . .
6. Add lines 1, 3, 4, and 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7. Enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
$32,000 if you checked box A above.
$25,000 if you checked box B above.
$0 if you checked box C above. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8. Subtract line 7 from line 6. If zero or less, enter -0- on this line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9. If line 8 is zero, skip to line 17, enter -0-, and continue with line 18.
If line 8 is more than zero, enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
$12,000 if you checked box A above.
$9,000 if you checked box B above.
$0 if you checked box C above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10. Subtract line 9 from line 8. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11. Enter the smaller of line 8 or line 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12. Enter one-half of line 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13. Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
14. Multiply line 10 by .85. If line 10 is zero, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15. Add lines 13 and 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16. Multiply line 2 by .85 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
17. Taxable benefits to be included in modified AGI for traditional IRA deduction purposes.
Enter the smaller of line 15 or line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18. Enter the amount of any employer-provided adoption benefits exclusion and any foreign
earned income exclusion and foreign housing exclusion or deduction that you claimed . . . . .
19. Modified AGI for determining your reduced traditional IRA deduction — add lines 1, 17, and
18. Enter here and on line 2 of Worksheet 2, next . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Publication 590 (2013)

1.
2.
3.

89,500
12,000
6,000

4.
5.
6.

0
0
95,500

7.
8.

32,000
63,500

9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.

12,000
51,500
12,000
6,000
6,000
43,775
49,775
10,200

17.

10,200

18.

0

19.

99,700

Page 91

Appendix B. (Continued)

Keep for Your Records

Worksheet 2
Computation of Traditional IRA Deduction For 2013
(For use only by taxpayers who receive social security benefits)
IF your filing status is ...

AND your modified AGI is over ...

THEN enter on line 1
below ...

married filing jointly or
qualifying widow(er)

$95,000*

$115,000

married filing jointly (you
are not covered by an
employer plan but your
spouse is)

$178,000*

$188,000

single, or head of
household

$59,000*

$69,000

$0*

$10,000

married filing
separately**

*If your modified AGI is not over this amount, you can take an IRA deduction for your contributions of up to the lesser
of $5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older) or your taxable compensation. Skip this worksheet, proceed to
Worksheet 3, and enter your IRA deduction on line 2 of Worksheet 3.
**If you did not live with your spouse at any time during the year, consider your filing status as single.
Note. If you were married and you or your spouse worked and you both contributed to IRAs, figure the deduction for
each of you separately.
1.
2.
3.
4.

5.

6.
7.
8.

Enter the applicable amount from above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter your modified AGI from Worksheet 1, line 19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note. If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here; your traditional
IRA contributions are not deductible. Proceed to Worksheet 3.
Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result is not a multiple of
$10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example, $611.40 is rounded to
$620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter $200.
Married filing jointly or qualifying widow(er) and you are
covered by an employer plan, multiply line 3 by 27.5%
(.275) (by 32.5% (.325) if you are age 50 or older).
..................
All others, multiply line 3 by 55% (.55) (by 65% (.65) if you
are age 50 or older).
Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Form 1040 or Form 1040NR, line 27
(deductible part of self-employment tax) and line 28 (self-employed SEP, SIMPLE, and
qualified plans). If you are the lower-income spouse, include your spouse's
compensation reduced by his or her traditional IRA and Roth IRA contributions for this
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter contributions you made, or plan to make, to your traditional IRA for 2013, but do not
enter more than $5,500 ($6,500 if you are age 50 or older) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount here (or a smaller
amount if you choose). Enter this amount on the Form 1040 or 1040A line for your IRA. (If
the amount on line 6 is more than the amount on line 7, complete line 8.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nondeductible contributions. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or 6, whichever is smaller.
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606, Nondeductible IRAs. . . . . . . . . . . . .

Page 92

1.
2.

115,000
99,700

3.

15,300

4.

4,980

5.

89,500

6.

6,000

7.

4,980

8.

1,020

Publication 590 (2013)

Appendix B. (Continued)

Keep for Your Records

Worksheet 3
Computation of Taxable Social Security Benefits
(For use by taxpayers who receive social security benefits and take a traditional IRA
deduction)
Filing Status — Check only one box:
A. Married filing jointly
B. Single, Head of Household, Qualifying Widow(er), or Married filing separately
and lived apart from your spouse during the entire year
C. Married filing separately and lived with your spouse at any time during the
year
1. Adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040 or Form 1040A
(For purposes of this worksheet, figure your AGI without taking into account any IRA
deduction, any student loan interest deduction, any tuition and fees deduction, any
domestic production activities deduction, any social security benefits from Form SSA-1099
or RRB-1099, or any exclusion of interest from savings bonds to be reported on Form
8815.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
2. Deduction(s) from line 7 of Worksheet(s) 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.

89,500
4,980

3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Enter amount in box 5 of all Forms SSA-1099 and Forms RRB-1099 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.

84,520

5. Enter one-half of line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
6. Enter the amount of any foreign earned income exclusion, foreign housing exclusion,
exclusion of income from U.S. possessions, exclusion of income from Puerto Rico you
claimed as a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico, or exclusion of employer-provided
adoption benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
7. Enter the amount of any tax-exempt interest reported on line 8b of Form 1040 or
1040A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
8. Add lines 3, 5, 6, and 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.

6,000

12,000

0
0
90,520

9. Enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
$32,000 if you checked box A above.
$25,000 if you checked box B above.
$0 if you checked box C above. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.
10. Subtract line 9 from line 8. If zero or less, enter -0- on this line. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.

32,000
58,520

11. If line 10 is zero, stop here. None of your social security benefits are taxable.
If line 10 is more than zero, enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
$12,000 if you checked box A above.
$9,000 if you checked box B above.
$0 if you checked box C above. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.

12,000

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.
14. Enter one-half of line 13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.

12,000

15. Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 14

6,000

12. Subtract line 11 from line 10. If zero or less, enter -013. Enter the smaller of line 10 or line 11

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.
16. Multiply line 12 by .85. If line 12 is zero, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.

46,520
6,000
39,542

17. Add lines 15 and 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17.
18. Multiply line 4 by .85 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.

45,542

19. Taxable social security benefits. Enter the smaller of line 17 or line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19.

10,200

Publication 590 (2013)

10,200

Page 93

Appendix C. Life Expectancy Tables

Table I
(Single Life Expectancy)
(For Use by Beneficiaries)

Page 94

Age

Life Expectancy

Age

Life Expectancy

0
1
2
3
4

82.4
81.6
80.6
79.7
78.7

28
29
30
31
32

55.3
54.3
53.3
52.4
51.4

5
6
7
8
9

77.7
76.7
75.8
74.8
73.8

33
34
35
36
37

50.4
49.4
48.5
47.5
46.5

10
11
12
13
14

72.8
71.8
70.8
69.9
68.9

38
39
40
41
42

45.6
44.6
43.6
42.7
41.7

15
16
17
18
19

67.9
66.9
66.0
65.0
64.0

43
44
45
46
47

40.7
39.8
38.8
37.9
37.0

20
21
22
23
24

63.0
62.1
61.1
60.1
59.1

48
49
50
51
52

36.0
35.1
34.2
33.3
32.3

25
26
27

58.2
57.2
56.2

53
54
55

31.4
30.5
29.6

Publication 590 (2013)

Appendix C. (Continued)

Table I
(Single Life Expectancy)
(For Use by Beneficiaries)
Age

Life Expectancy

Age

Life Expectancy

56
57
58
59
60

28.7
27.9
27.0
26.1
25.2

84
85
86
87
88

8.1
7.6
7.1
6.7
6.3

61
62
63
64
65

24.4
23.5
22.7
21.8
21.0

89
90
91
92
93

5.9
5.5
5.2
4.9
4.6

66
67
68
69
70

20.2
19.4
18.6
17.8
17.0

94
95
96
97
98

4.3
4.1
3.8
3.6
3.4

71
72
73
74
75

16.3
15.5
14.8
14.1
13.4

99
100
101
102
103

3.1
2.9
2.7
2.5
2.3

76
77
78
79
80

12.7
12.1
11.4
10.8
10.2

104
105
106
107
108

2.1
1.9
1.7
1.5
1.4

81
82
83

9.7
9.1
8.6

109
110
111 and over

1.2
1.1
1.0

Publication 590 (2013)

Page 95

Appendix C. Life Expectancy Tables (Continued)
Table II
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

20
21
22
23
24

70.1
69.6
69.1
68.7
68.3

69.6
69.1
68.6
68.2
67.7

69.1
68.6
68.1
67.6
67.2

68.7
68.2
67.6
67.1
66.6

68.3
67.7
67.2
66.6
66.1

67.9
67.3
66.7
66.2
65.6

67.5
66.9
66.3
65.7
65.2

67.2
66.6
65.9
65.3
64.7

66.9
66.2
65.6
64.9
64.3

66.6
65.9
65.2
64.6
63.9

25
26
27
28
29

67.9
67.5
67.2
66.9
66.6

67.3
66.9
66.6
66.2
65.9

66.7
66.3
65.9
65.6
65.2

66.2
65.7
65.3
64.9
64.6

65.6
65.2
64.7
64.3
63.9

65.1
64.6
64.2
63.7
63.3

64.6
64.1
63.6
63.2
62.8

64.2
63.6
63.1
62.7
62.2

63.7
63.2
62.7
62.1
61.7

63.3
62.8
62.2
61.7
61.2

30
31
32
33
34

66.3
66.1
65.8
65.6
65.4

65.6
65.3
65.1
64.8
64.6

64.9
64.6
64.3
64.1
63.8

64.2
63.9
63.6
63.3
63.1

63.6
63.2
62.9
62.6
62.3

62.9
62.6
62.2
61.9
61.6

62.3
62.0
61.6
61.3
60.9

61.8
61.4
61.0
60.6
60.3

61.2
60.8
60.4
60.0
59.6

60.7
60.2
59.8
59.4
59.0

35
36
37
38
39

65.2
65.0
64.9
64.7
64.6

64.4
64.2
64.0
63.9
63.7

63.6
63.4
63.2
63.0
62.9

62.8
62.6
62.4
62.2
62.1

62.1
61.9
61.6
61.4
61.2

61.4
61.1
60.9
60.6
60.4

60.6
60.4
60.1
59.9
59.6

59.9
59.6
59.4
59.1
58.9

59.3
59.0
58.7
58.4
58.1

58.6
58.3
58.0
57.7
57.4

40
41
42
43
44

64.4
64.3
64.2
64.1
64.0

63.6
63.5
63.3
63.2
63.1

62.7
62.6
62.5
62.4
62.2

61.9
61.7
61.6
61.5
61.4

61.1
60.9
60.8
60.6
60.5

60.2
60.1
59.9
59.8
59.6

59.4
59.3
59.1
58.9
58.8

58.7
58.5
58.3
58.1
57.9

57.9
57.7
57.5
57.3
57.1

57.1
56.9
56.7
56.5
56.3

45
46
47
48
49

64.0
63.9
63.8
63.7
63.7

63.0
63.0
62.9
62.8
62.8

62.2
62.1
62.0
61.9
61.8

61.3
61.2
61.1
61.0
60.9

60.4
60.3
60.2
60.1
60.0

59.5
59.4
59.3
59.2
59.1

58.6
58.5
58.4
58.3
58.2

57.8
57.7
57.5
57.4
57.3

56.9
56.8
56.7
56.5
56.4

56.1
56.0
55.8
55.7
55.6

50
51
52
53
54

63.6
63.6
63.5
63.5
63.5

62.7
62.6
62.6
62.5
62.5

61.8
61.7
61.7
61.6
61.6

60.8
60.8
60.7
60.7
60.6

59.9
59.9
59.8
59.7
59.7

59.0
58.9
58.9
58.8
58.8

58.1
58.0
58.0
57.9
57.8

57.2
57.1
57.1
57.0
56.9

56.3
56.2
56.1
56.1
56.0

55.4
55.3
55.2
55.2
55.1

55
56
57
58
59

63.4
63.4
63.4
63.3
63.3

62.5
62.4
62.4
62.4
62.3

61.5
61.5
61.5
61.4
61.4

60.6
60.5
60.5
60.5
60.4

59.6
59.6
59.6
59.5
59.5

58.7
58.7
58.6
58.6
58.5

57.8
57.7
57.7
57.6
57.6

56.8
56.8
56.7
56.7
56.7

55.9
55.9
55.8
55.8
55.7

55.0
54.9
54.9
54.8
54.8

Page 96

Publication 590 (2013)

Appendix C. (Continued)
Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

60
61
62
63
64

63.3
63.3
63.2
63.2
63.2

62.3
62.3
62.3
62.3
62.2

61.4
61.3
61.3
61.3
61.3

60.4
60.4
60.4
60.3
60.3

59.5
59.4
59.4
59.4
59.4

58.5
58.5
58.4
58.4
58.4

57.6
57.5
57.5
57.5
57.4

56.6
56.6
56.5
56.5
56.5

55.7
55.6
55.6
55.6
55.5

54.7
54.7
54.7
54.6
54.6

65
66
67
68
69

63.2
63.2
63.2
63.1
63.1

62.2
62.2
62.2
62.2
62.2

61.3
61.2
61.2
61.2
61.2

60.3
60.3
60.3
60.2
60.2

59.3
59.3
59.3
59.3
59.3

58.4
58.4
58.3
58.3
58.3

57.4
57.4
57.4
57.4
57.3

56.5
56.4
56.4
56.4
56.4

55.5
55.5
55.5
55.4
55.4

54.6
54.5
54.5
54.5
54.5

70
71
72
73
74

63.1
63.1
63.1
63.1
63.1

62.2
62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1

61.2
61.2
61.2
61.2
61.2

60.2
60.2
60.2
60.2
60.2

59.3
59.2
59.2
59.2
59.2

58.3
58.3
58.3
58.3
58.2

57.3
57.3
57.3
57.3
57.3

56.4
56.4
56.3
56.3
56.3

55.4
55.4
55.4
55.4
55.4

54.4
54.4
54.4
54.4
54.4

75
76
77
78
79

63.1
63.1
63.1
63.1
63.1

62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1

61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1

60.2
60.2
60.2
60.2
60.2

59.2
59.2
59.2
59.2
59.2

58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2

57.3
57.3
57.3
57.3
57.2

56.3
56.3
56.3
56.3
56.3

55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3

54.4
54.4
54.4
54.4
54.3

80
81
82
83
84

63.1
63.1
63.1
63.1
63.0

62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1

61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1

60.1
60.1
60.1
60.1
60.1

59.2
59.2
59.2
59.2
59.2

58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2

57.2
57.2
57.2
57.2
57.2

56.3
56.3
56.3
56.3
56.3

55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3

54.3
54.3
54.3
54.3
54.3

85
86
87
88
89

63.0
63.0
63.0
63.0
63.0

62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1

61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1

60.1
60.1
60.1
60.1
60.1

59.2
59.2
59.2
59.2
59.1

58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2

57.2
57.2
57.2
57.2
57.2

56.3
56.2
56.2
56.2
56.2

55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3

54.3
54.3
54.3
54.3
54.3

90
91
92
93
94

63.0
63.0
63.0
63.0
63.0

62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1

61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1

60.1
60.1
60.1
60.1
60.1

59.1
59.1
59.1
59.1
59.1

58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2

57.2
57.2
57.2
57.2
57.2

56.2
56.2
56.2
56.2
56.2

55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3

54.3
54.3
54.3
54.3
54.3

95
96
97
98
99

63.0
63.0
63.0
63.0
63.0

62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1

61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1

60.1
60.1
60.1
60.1
60.1

59.1
59.1
59.1
59.1
59.1

58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2

57.2
57.2
57.2
57.2
57.2

56.2
56.2
56.2
56.2
56.2

55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3

54.3
54.3
54.3
54.3
54.3

Publication 590 (2013)

Page 97

Appendix C. (Continued)
Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

100
101
102
103
104

63.0
63.0
63.0
63.0
63.0

62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1

61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1

60.1
60.1
60.1
60.1
60.1

59.1
59.1
59.1
59.1
59.1

58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2

57.2
57.2
57.2
57.2
57.2

56.2
56.2
56.2
56.2
56.2

55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3

54.3
54.3
54.3
54.3
54.3

105
106
107
108
109

63.0
63.0
63.0
63.0
63.0

62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1

61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1

60.1
60.1
60.1
60.1
60.1

59.1
59.1
59.1
59.1
59.1

58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2

57.2
57.2
57.2
57.2
57.2

56.2
56.2
56.2
56.2
56.2

55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3

54.3
54.3
54.3
54.3
54.3

110
111
112
113
114

63.0
63.0
63.0
63.0
63.0

62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1
62.1

61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1
61.1

60.1
60.1
60.1
60.1
60.1

59.1
59.1
59.1
59.1
59.1

58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2
58.2

57.2
57.2
57.2
57.2
57.2

56.2
56.2
56.2
56.2
56.2

55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3
55.3

54.3
54.3
54.3
54.3
54.3

115+

63.0

62.1

61.1

60.1

59.1

58.2

57.2

56.2

55.3

54.3

Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

30
31
32
33
34

60.2
59.7
59.2
58.8
58.4

59.7
59.2
58.7
58.2
57.8

59.2
58.7
58.2
57.7
57.2

58.8
58.2
57.7
57.2
56.7

58.4
57.8
57.2
56.7
56.2

58.0
57.4
56.8
56.2
55.7

57.6
57.0
56.4
55.8
55.3

57.3
56.6
56.0
55.4
54.8

57.0
56.3
55.6
55.0
54.4

56.7
56.0
55.3
54.7
54.0

35
36
37
38
39

58.0
57.6
57.3
57.0
56.7

57.4
57.0
56.6
56.3
56.0

56.8
56.4
56.0
55.6
55.3

56.2
55.8
55.4
55.0
54.7

55.7
55.3
54.8
54.4
54.0

55.2
54.7
54.3
53.8
53.4

54.7
54.2
53.7
53.3
52.8

54.3
53.7
53.2
52.7
52.3

53.8
53.3
52.7
52.2
51.7

53.4
52.8
52.3
51.7
51.2

40
41
42
43
44

56.4
56.1
55.9
55.7
55.5

55.7
55.4
55.2
54.9
54.7

55.0
54.7
54.4
54.2
53.9

54.3
54.0
53.7
53.4
53.2

53.7
53.3
53.0
52.7
52.4

53.0
52.7
52.3
52.0
51.7

52.4
52.0
51.7
51.3
51.0

51.8
51.4
51.1
50.7
50.4

51.3
50.9
50.4
50.1
49.7

50.8
50.3
49.9
49.5
49.1

45
46
47
48

55.3
55.1
55.0
54.8

54.5
54.3
54.1
54.0

53.7
53.5
53.3
53.2

52.9
52.7
52.5
52.3

52.2
52.0
51.7
51.5

51.5
51.2
51.0
50.8

50.7
50.5
50.2
50.0

50.0
49.8
49.5
49.2

49.4
49.1
48.8
48.5

48.7
48.4
48.1
47.8

Page 98

Publication 590 (2013)

Appendix C. (Continued)
Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

49

54.7

53.8

53.0

52.2

51.4

50.6

49.8

49.0

48.2

47.5

50
51
52
53
54

54.6
54.5
54.4
54.3
54.2

53.7
53.6
53.5
53.4
53.3

52.9
52.7
52.6
52.5
52.4

52.0
51.9
51.7
51.6
51.5

51.2
51.0
50.9
50.8
50.6

50.4
50.2
50.0
49.9
49.8

49.6
49.4
49.2
49.1
48.9

48.8
48.6
48.4
48.2
48.1

48.0
47.8
47.6
47.4
47.2

47.3
47.0
46.8
46.6
46.4

55
56
57
58
59

54.1
54.0
54.0
53.9
53.8

53.2
53.1
53.0
53.0
52.9

52.3
52.2
52.1
52.1
52.0

51.4
51.3
51.2
51.2
51.1

50.5
50.4
50.3
50.3
50.2

49.7
49.5
49.4
49.4
49.3

48.8
48.7
48.6
48.5
48.4

47.9
47.8
47.7
47.6
47.5

47.1
47.0
46.8
46.7
46.6

46.3
46.1
46.0
45.8
45.7

60
61
62
63
64

53.8
53.8
53.7
53.7
53.6

52.9
52.8
52.8
52.7
52.7

51.9
51.9
51.8
51.8
51.8

51.0
51.0
50.9
50.9
50.8

50.1
50.0
50.0
49.9
49.9

49.2
49.1
49.1
49.0
48.9

48.3
48.2
48.1
48.1
48.0

47.4
47.3
47.2
47.2
47.1

46.5
46.4
46.3
46.3
46.2

45.6
45.5
45.4
45.3
45.3

65
66
67
68
69

53.6
53.6
53.6
53.5
53.5

52.7
52.6
52.6
52.6
52.6

51.7
51.7
51.7
51.6
51.6

50.8
50.7
50.7
50.7
50.6

49.8
49.8
49.8
49.7
49.7

48.9
48.9
48.8
48.8
48.7

48.0
47.9
47.9
47.8
47.8

47.0
47.0
46.9
46.9
46.9

46.1
46.1
46.0
46.0
45.9

45.2
45.1
45.1
45.0
45.0

70
71
72
73
74

53.5
53.5
53.5
53.4
53.4

52.5
52.5
52.5
52.5
52.5

51.6
51.6
51.5
51.5
51.5

50.6
50.6
50.6
50.6
50.5

49.7
49.6
49.6
49.6
49.6

48.7
48.7
48.7
48.6
48.6

47.8
47.7
47.7
47.7
47.7

46.8
46.8
46.8
46.7
46.7

45.9
45.9
45.8
45.8
45.8

44.9
44.9
44.9
44.8
44.8

75
76
77
78
79

53.4
53.4
53.4
53.4
53.4

52.5
52.4
52.4
52.4
52.4

51.5
51.5
51.5
51.5
51.5

50.5
50.5
50.5
50.5
50.5

49.6
49.6
49.5
49.5
49.5

48.6
48.6
48.6
48.6
48.6

47.7
47.6
47.6
47.6
47.6

46.7
46.7
46.7
46.6
46.6

45.7
45.7
45.7
45.7
45.7

44.8
44.8
44.8
44.7
44.7

80
81
82
83
84

53.4
53.4
53.4
53.4
53.4

52.4
52.4
52.4
52.4
52.4

51.4
51.4
51.4
51.4
51.4

50.5
50.5
50.5
50.5
50.5

49.5
49.5
49.5
49.5
49.5

48.5
48.5
48.5
48.5
48.5

47.6
47.6
47.6
47.6
47.6

46.6
46.6
46.6
46.6
46.6

45.7
45.7
45.6
45.6
45.6

44.7
44.7
44.7
44.7
44.7

85
86
87
88

53.3
53.3
53.3
53.3

52.4
52.4
52.4
52.4

51.4
51.4
51.4
51.4

50.4
50.4
50.4
50.4

49.5
49.5
49.5
49.5

48.5
48.5
48.5
48.5

47.5
47.5
47.5
47.5

46.6
46.6
46.6
46.6

45.6
45.6
45.6
45.6

44.7
44.6
44.6
44.6

Publication 590 (2013)

Page 99

Appendix C. (Continued)
Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

89

53.3

52.4

51.4

50.4

49.5

48.5

47.5

46.6

45.6

44.6

90
91
92
93
94

53.3
53.3
53.3
53.3
53.3

52.4
52.4
52.4
52.4
52.4

51.4
51.4
51.4
51.4
51.4

50.4
50.4
50.4
50.4
50.4

49.5
49.5
49.5
49.5
49.5

48.5
48.5
48.5
48.5
48.5

47.5
47.5
47.5
47.5
47.5

46.6
46.6
46.6
46.6
46.6

45.6
45.6
45.6
45.6
45.6

44.6
44.6
44.6
44.6
44.6

95
96
97
98
99

53.3
53.3
53.3
53.3
53.3

52.4
52.4
52.4
52.4
52.4

51.4
51.4
51.4
51.4
51.4

50.4
50.4
50.4
50.4
50.4

49.5
49.5
49.5
49.5
49.5

48.5
48.5
48.5
48.5
48.5

47.5
47.5
47.5
47.5
47.5

46.5
46.5
46.5
46.5
46.5

45.6
45.6
45.6
45.6
45.6

44.6
44.6
44.6
44.6
44.6

100
101
102
103
104

53.3
53.3
53.3
53.3
53.3

52.4
52.4
52.4
52.4
52.4

51.4
51.4
51.4
51.4
51.4

50.4
50.4
50.4
50.4
50.4

49.5
49.5
49.5
49.5
49.5

48.5
48.5
48.5
48.5
48.5

47.5
47.5
47.5
47.5
47.5

46.5
46.5
46.5
46.5
46.5

45.6
45.6
45.6
45.6
45.6

44.6
44.6
44.6
44.6
44.6

105
106
107
108
109

53.3
53.3
53.3
53.3
53.3

52.4
52.4
52.4
52.4
52.4

51.4
51.4
51.4
51.4
51.4

50.4
50.4
50.4
50.4
50.4

49.4
49.4
49.4
49.4
49.4

48.5
48.5
48.5
48.5
48.5

47.5
47.5
47.5
47.5
47.5

46.5
46.5
46.5
46.5
46.5

45.6
45.6
45.6
45.6
45.6

44.6
44.6
44.6
44.6
44.6

110
111
112
113
114

53.3
53.3
53.3
53.3
53.3

52.4
52.4
52.4
52.4
52.4

51.4
51.4
51.4
51.4
51.4

50.4
50.4
50.4
50.4
50.4

49.4
49.4
49.4
49.4
49.4

48.5
48.5
48.5
48.5
48.5

47.5
47.5
47.5
47.5
47.5

46.5
46.5
46.5
46.5
46.5

45.6
45.6
45.6
45.6
45.6

44.6
44.6
44.6
44.6
44.6

115+

53.3

52.4

51.4

50.4

49.4

48.5

47.5

46.5

45.6

44.6

Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47

48

49

40
41
42
43
44

50.2
49.8
49.3
48.9
48.5

49.8
49.3
48.8
48.3
47.9

49.3
48.8
48.3
47.8
47.3

48.9
48.3
47.8
47.3
46.8

48.5
47.9
47.3
46.8
46.3

48.1
47.5
46.9
46.3
45.8

47.7
47.1
46.5
45.9
45.4

47.4
46.7
46.1
45.5
44.9

47.1
46.4
45.8
45.1
44.5

46.8
46.1
45.4
44.8
44.2

45
46
47

48.1
47.7
47.4

47.5
47.1
46.7

46.9
46.5
46.1

46.3
45.9
45.5

45.8
45.4
44.9

45.3
44.8
44.4

44.8
44.3
43.9

44.4
43.9
43.4

44.0
43.4
42.9

43.6
43.0
42.4

Page 100

Publication 590 (2013)

Appendix C. (Continued)
Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47

48

49

48
49

47.1
46.8

46.4
46.1

45.8
45.4

45.1
44.8

44.5
44.2

44.0
43.6

43.4
43.0

42.9
42.4

42.4
41.9

41.9
41.4

50
51
52
53
54

46.5
46.3
46.0
45.8
45.6

45.8
45.5
45.3
45.1
44.8

45.1
44.8
44.6
44.3
44.1

44.4
44.1
43.8
43.6
43.3

43.8
43.5
43.2
42.9
42.6

43.2
42.8
42.5
42.2
41.9

42.6
42.2
41.8
41.5
41.2

42.0
41.6
41.2
40.9
40.5

41.5
41.0
40.6
40.3
39.9

40.9
40.5
40.1
39.7
39.3

55
56
57
58
59

45.5
45.3
45.1
45.0
44.9

44.7
44.5
44.3
44.2
44.0

43.9
43.7
43.5
43.3
43.2

43.1
42.9
42.7
42.5
42.4

42.4
42.1
41.9
41.7
41.5

41.6
41.4
41.2
40.9
40.7

40.9
40.7
40.4
40.2
40.0

40.2
40.0
39.7
39.4
39.2

39.6
39.3
39.0
38.7
38.5

38.9
38.6
38.3
38.0
37.8

60
61
62
63
64

44.7
44.6
44.5
44.5
44.4

43.9
43.8
43.7
43.6
43.5

43.0
42.9
42.8
42.7
42.6

42.2
42.1
41.9
41.8
41.7

41.4
41.2
41.1
41.0
40.8

40.6
40.4
40.3
40.1
40.0

39.8
39.6
39.4
39.3
39.2

39.0
38.8
38.6
38.5
38.3

38.2
38.0
37.8
37.7
37.5

37.5
37.3
37.1
36.9
36.7

65
66
67
68
69

44.3
44.2
44.2
44.1
44.1

43.4
43.3
43.3
43.2
43.1

42.5
42.4
42.3
42.3
42.2

41.6
41.5
41.4
41.4
41.3

40.7
40.6
40.6
40.5
40.4

39.9
39.8
39.7
39.6
39.5

39.0
38.9
38.8
38.7
38.6

38.2
38.1
38.0
37.9
37.8

37.4
37.2
37.1
37.0
36.9

36.6
36.4
36.3
36.2
36.0

70
71
72
73
74

44.0
44.0
43.9
43.9
43.9

43.1
43.0
43.0
43.0
42.9

42.2
42.1
42.1
42.0
42.0

41.3
41.2
41.1
41.1
41.1

40.3
40.3
40.2
40.2
40.1

39.4
39.4
39.3
39.3
39.2

38.6
38.5
38.4
38.4
38.3

37.7
37.6
37.5
37.5
37.4

36.8
36.7
36.6
36.6
36.5

35.9
35.9
35.8
35.7
35.6

75
76
77
78
79

43.8
43.8
43.8
43.8
43.8

42.9
42.9
42.9
42.8
42.8

42.0
41.9
41.9
41.9
41.9

41.0
41.0
41.0
40.9
40.9

40.1
40.1
40.0
40.0
40.0

39.2
39.1
39.1
39.1
39.1

38.3
38.2
38.2
38.2
38.1

37.4
37.3
37.3
37.2
37.2

36.5
36.4
36.4
36.3
36.3

35.6
35.5
35.5
35.4
35.4

80
81
82
83
84

43.7
43.7
43.7
43.7
43.7

42.8
42.8
42.8
42.8
42.7

41.8
41.8
41.8
41.8
41.8

40.9
40.9
40.9
40.9
40.8

40.0
39.9
39.9
39.9
39.9

39.0
39.0
39.0
39.0
39.0

38.1
38.1
38.1
38.0
38.0

37.2
37.2
37.1
37.1
37.1

36.3
36.2
36.2
36.2
36.2

35.4
35.3
35.3
35.3
35.3

85
86
87

43.7
43.7
43.7

42.7
42.7
42.7

41.8
41.8
41.8

40.8
40.8
40.8

39.9
39.9
39.9

38.9
38.9
38.9

38.0
38.0
38.0

37.1
37.1
37.0

36.2
36.1
36.1

35.2
35.2
35.2

Publication 590 (2013)

Page 101

Appendix C. (Continued)
Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47

48

49

88
89

43.7
43.7

42.7
42.7

41.8
41.7

40.8
40.8

39.9
39.8

38.9
38.9

38.0
38.0

37.0
37.0

36.1
36.1

35.2
35.2

90
91
92
93
94

43.7
43.7
43.7
43.7
43.7

42.7
42.7
42.7
42.7
42.7

41.7
41.7
41.7
41.7
41.7

40.8
40.8
40.8
40.8
40.8

39.8
39.8
39.8
39.8
39.8

38.9
38.9
38.9
38.9
38.9

38.0
37.9
37.9
37.9
37.9

37.0
37.0
37.0
37.0
37.0

36.1
36.1
36.1
36.1
36.1

35.2
35.2
35.1
35.1
35.1

95
96
97
98
99

43.6
43.6
43.6
43.6
43.6

42.7
42.7
42.7
42.7
42.7

41.7
41.7
41.7
41.7
41.7

40.8
40.8
40.8
40.8
40.8

39.8
39.8
39.8
39.8
39.8

38.9
38.9
38.9
38.9
38.9

37.9
37.9
37.9
37.9
37.9

37.0
37.0
37.0
37.0
37.0

36.1
36.1
36.1
36.0
36.0

35.1
35.1
35.1
35.1
35.1

100
101
102
103
104

43.6
43.6
43.6
43.6
43.6

42.7
42.7
42.7
42.7
42.7

41.7
41.7
41.7
41.7
41.7

40.8
40.8
40.8
40.8
40.8

39.8
39.8
39.8
39.8
39.8

38.9
38.9
38.9
38.9
38.8

37.9
37.9
37.9
37.9
37.9

37.0
37.0
37.0
37.0
37.0

36.0
36.0
36.0
36.0
36.0

35.1
35.1
35.1
35.1
35.1

105
106
107
108
109

43.6
43.6
43.6
43.6
43.6

42.7
42.7
42.7
42.7
42.7

41.7
41.7
41.7
41.7
41.7

40.8
40.8
40.8
40.8
40.7

39.8
39.8
39.8
39.8
39.8

38.8
38.8
38.8
38.8
38.8

37.9
37.9
37.9
37.9
37.9

37.0
37.0
37.0
37.0
37.0

36.0
36.0
36.0
36.0
36.0

35.1
35.1
35.1
35.1
35.1

110
111
112
113
114

43.6
43.6
43.6
43.6
43.6

42.7
42.7
42.7
42.7
42.7

41.7
41.7
41.7
41.7
41.7

40.7
40.7
40.7
40.7
40.7

39.8
39.8
39.8
39.8
39.8

38.8
38.8
38.8
38.8
38.8

37.9
37.9
37.9
37.9
37.9

37.0
37.0
37.0
37.0
37.0

36.0
36.0
36.0
36.0
36.0

35.1
35.1
35.1
35.1
35.1

115+

43.6

42.7

41.7

40.7

39.8

38.8

37.9

37.0

36.0

35.1

Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

50

51

52

53

54

55

56

57

58

59

50
51
52
53
54

40.4
40.0
39.5
39.1
38.7

40.0
39.5
39.0
38.5
38.1

39.5
39.0
38.5
38.0
37.6

39.1
38.5
38.0
37.5
37.1

38.7
38.1
37.6
37.1
36.6

38.3
37.7
37.2
36.6
36.1

38.0
37.4
36.8
36.2
35.7

37.6
37.0
36.4
35.8
35.2

37.3
36.7
36.0
35.4
34.8

37.1
36.4
35.7
35.1
34.5

55
56

38.3
38.0

37.7
37.4

37.2
36.8

36.6
36.2

36.1
35.7

35.6
35.1

35.1
34.7

34.7
34.2

34.3
33.7

33.9
33.3

Page 102

Publication 590 (2013)

Appendix C. (Continued)
Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

50

51

52

53

54

55

56

57

58

59

57
58
59

37.6
37.3
37.1

37.0
36.7
36.4

36.4
36.0
35.7

35.8
35.4
35.1

35.2
34.8
34.5

34.7
34.3
33.9

34.2
33.7
33.3

33.7
33.2
32.8

33.2
32.8
32.3

32.8
32.3
31.8

60
61
62
63
64

36.8
36.6
36.3
36.1
35.9

36.1
35.8
35.6
35.4
35.2

35.4
35.1
34.9
34.6
34.4

34.8
34.5
34.2
33.9
33.7

34.1
33.8
33.5
33.2
33.0

33.5
33.2
32.9
32.6
32.3

32.9
32.6
32.2
31.9
31.6

32.4
32.0
31.6
31.3
31.0

31.9
31.4
31.1
30.7
30.4

31.3
30.9
30.5
30.1
29.8

65
66
67
68
69

35.8
35.6
35.5
35.3
35.2

35.0
34.8
34.7
34.5
34.4

34.2
34.0
33.9
33.7
33.6

33.5
33.3
33.1
32.9
32.8

32.7
32.5
32.3
32.1
32.0

32.0
31.8
31.6
31.4
31.2

31.4
31.1
30.9
30.7
30.5

30.7
30.4
30.2
29.9
29.7

30.0
29.8
29.5
29.2
29.0

29.4
29.1
28.8
28.6
28.3

70
71
72
73
74

35.1
35.0
34.9
34.8
34.8

34.3
34.2
34.1
34.0
33.9

33.4
33.3
33.2
33.1
33.0

32.6
32.5
32.4
32.3
32.2

31.8
31.7
31.6
31.5
31.4

31.1
30.9
30.8
30.6
30.5

30.3
30.1
30.0
29.8
29.7

29.5
29.4
29.2
29.1
28.9

28.8
28.6
28.4
28.3
28.1

28.1
27.9
27.7
27.5
27.4

75
76
77
78
79

34.7
34.6
34.6
34.5
34.5

33.8
33.8
33.7
33.6
33.6

33.0
32.9
32.8
32.8
32.7

32.1
32.0
32.0
31.9
31.8

31.3
31.2
31.1
31.0
31.0

30.4
30.3
30.3
30.2
30.1

29.6
29.5
29.4
29.3
29.3

28.8
28.7
28.6
28.5
28.4

28.0
27.9
27.8
27.7
27.6

27.2
27.1
27.0
26.9
26.8

80
81
82
83
84

34.5
34.4
34.4
34.4
34.3

33.6
33.5
33.5
33.5
33.4

32.7
32.6
32.6
32.6
32.5

31.8
31.8
31.7
31.7
31.7

30.9
30.9
30.8
30.8
30.8

30.1
30.0
30.0
29.9
29.9

29.2
29.2
29.1
29.1
29.0

28.4
28.3
28.3
28.2
28.2

27.5
27.5
27.4
27.4
27.3

26.7
26.6
26.6
26.5
26.5

85
86
87
88
89

34.3
34.3
34.3
34.3
34.3

33.4
33.4
33.4
33.4
33.3

32.5
32.5
32.5
32.5
32.4

31.6
31.6
31.6
31.6
31.5

30.7
30.7
30.7
30.7
30.7

29.9
29.8
29.8
29.8
29.8

29.0
29.0
28.9
28.9
28.9

28.1
28.1
28.1
28.0
28.0

27.3
27.2
27.2
27.2
27.2

26.4
26.4
26.4
26.3
26.3

90
91
92
93
94

34.2
34.2
34.2
34.2
34.2

33.3
33.3
33.3
33.3
33.3

32.4
32.4
32.4
32.4
32.4

31.5
31.5
31.5
31.5
31.5

30.6
30.6
30.6
30.6
30.6

29.8
29.7
29.7
29.7
29.7

28.9
28.9
28.8
28.8
28.8

28.0
28.0
28.0
28.0
27.9

27.1
27.1
27.1
27.1
27.1

26.3
26.3
26.2
26.2
26.2

95
96

34.2
34.2

33.3
33.3

32.4
32.4

31.5
31.5

30.6
30.6

29.7
29.7

28.8
28.8

27.9
27.9

27.1
27.0

26.2
26.2

Publication 590 (2013)

Page 103

Appendix C. (Continued)
Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

50

51

52

53

54

55

56

57

58

59

97
98
99

34.2
34.2
34.2

33.3
33.3
33.3

32.4
32.4
32.4

31.5
31.5
31.5

30.6
30.6
30.6

29.7
29.7
29.7

28.8
28.8
28.8

27.9
27.9
27.9

27.0
27.0
27.0

26.2
26.2
26.2

100
101
102
103
104

34.2
34.2
34.2
34.2
34.2

33.3
33.3
33.3
33.3
33.3

32.4
32.4
32.4
32.4
32.4

31.5
31.5
31.4
31.4
31.4

30.6
30.6
30.5
30.5
30.5

29.7
29.7
29.7
29.7
29.6

28.8
28.8
28.8
28.8
28.8

27.9
27.9
27.9
27.9
27.9

27.0
27.0
27.0
27.0
27.0

26.1
26.1
26.1
26.1
26.1

105
106
107
108
109

34.2
34.2
34.2
34.2
34.2

33.3
33.3
33.3
33.3
33.3

32.3
32.3
32.3
32.3
32.3

31.4
31.4
31.4
31.4
31.4

30.5
30.5
30.5
30.5
30.5

29.6
29.6
29.6
29.6
29.6

28.8
28.8
28.8
28.8
28.7

27.9
27.9
27.9
27.9
27.9

27.0
27.0
27.0
27.0
27.0

26.1
26.1
26.1
26.1
26.1

110
111
112
113
114

34.2
34.2
34.2
34.2
34.2

33.3
33.3
33.3
33.3
33.3

32.3
32.3
32.3
32.3
32.3

31.4
31.4
31.4
31.4
31.4

30.5
30.5
30.5
30.5
30.5

29.6
29.6
29.6
29.6
29.6

28.7
28.7
28.7
28.7
28.7

27.9
27.9
27.9
27.9
27.9

27.0
27.0
27.0
27.0
27.0

26.1
26.1
26.1
26.1
26.1

115+

34.2

33.3

32.3

31.4

30.5

29.6

28.7

27.9

27.0

26.1

Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

60

61

62

63

64

65

66

67

68

69

60
61
62
63
64

30.9
30.4
30.0
29.6
29.2

30.4
29.9
29.5
29.0
28.6

30.0
29.5
29.0
28.5
28.1

29.6
29.0
28.5
28.1
27.6

29.2
28.6
28.1
27.6
27.1

28.8
28.3
27.7
27.2
26.7

28.5
27.9
27.3
26.8
26.3

28.2
27.6
27.0
26.4
25.9

27.9
27.3
26.7
26.1
25.5

27.6
27.0
26.4
25.7
25.2

65
66
67
68
69

28.8
28.5
28.2
27.9
27.6

28.3
27.9
27.6
27.3
27.0

27.7
27.3
27.0
26.7
26.4

27.2
26.8
26.4
26.1
25.7

26.7
26.3
25.9
25.5
25.2

26.2
25.8
25.4
25.0
24.6

25.8
25.3
24.9
24.5
24.1

25.4
24.9
24.4
24.0
23.6

25.0
24.5
24.0
23.5
23.1

24.6
24.1
23.6
23.1
22.6

70
71
72
73
74

27.4
27.2
27.0
26.8
26.6

26.7
26.5
26.3
26.1
25.9

26.1
25.8
25.6
25.4
25.2

25.4
25.2
24.9
24.7
24.5

24.8
24.5
24.3
24.0
23.8

24.3
23.9
23.7
23.4
23.1

23.7
23.4
23.1
22.8
22.5

23.2
22.8
22.5
22.2
21.9

22.7
22.3
22.0
21.6
21.3

22.2
21.8
21.4
21.1
20.8

75

26.5

25.7

25.0

24.3

23.6

22.9

22.3

21.6

21.0

20.5

Page 104

Publication 590 (2013)

Appendix C. (Continued)
Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

60

61

62

63

64

65

66

67

68

69

76
77
78
79

26.3
26.2
26.1
26.0

25.6
25.4
25.3
25.2

24.8
24.7
24.6
24.4

24.1
23.9
23.8
23.7

23.4
23.2
23.1
22.9

22.7
22.5
22.4
22.2

22.0
21.8
21.7
21.5

21.4
21.2
21.0
20.8

20.8
20.6
20.3
20.1

20.2
19.9
19.7
19.5

80
81
82
83
84

25.9
25.8
25.8
25.7
25.6

25.1
25.0
24.9
24.9
24.8

24.3
24.2
24.1
24.1
24.0

23.6
23.4
23.4
23.3
23.2

22.8
22.7
22.6
22.5
22.4

22.1
21.9
21.8
21.7
21.6

21.3
21.2
21.1
21.0
20.9

20.6
20.5
20.4
20.2
20.1

20.0
19.8
19.7
19.5
19.4

19.3
19.1
19.0
18.8
18.7

85
86
87
88
89

25.6
25.5
25.5
25.5
25.4

24.8
24.7
24.7
24.6
24.6

23.9
23.9
23.8
23.8
23.8

23.1
23.1
23.0
23.0
22.9

22.3
22.3
22.2
22.2
22.1

21.6
21.5
21.4
21.4
21.3

20.8
20.7
20.7
20.6
20.5

20.1
20.0
19.9
19.8
19.8

19.3
19.2
19.2
19.1
19.0

18.6
18.5
18.4
18.3
18.3

90
91
92
93
94

25.4
25.4
25.4
25.4
25.3

24.6
24.5
24.5
24.5
24.5

23.7
23.7
23.7
23.7
23.6

22.9
22.9
22.9
22.8
22.8

22.1
22.1
22.0
22.0
22.0

21.3
21.3
21.2
21.2
21.2

20.5
20.5
20.4
20.4
20.4

19.7
19.7
19.6
19.6
19.6

19.0
18.9
18.9
18.8
18.8

18.2
18.2
18.1
18.1
18.0

95
96
97
98
99

25.3
25.3
25.3
25.3
25.3

24.5
24.5
24.5
24.4
24.4

23.6
23.6
23.6
23.6
23.6

22.8
22.8
22.8
22.8
22.7

22.0
21.9
21.9
21.9
21.9

21.1
21.1
21.1
21.1
21.1

20.3
20.3
20.3
20.3
20.3

19.6
19.5
19.5
19.5
19.5

18.8
18.8
18.7
18.7
18.7

18.0
18.0
18.0
17.9
17.9

100
101
102
103
104

25.3
25.3
25.3
25.3
25.3

24.4
24.4
24.4
24.4
24.4

23.6
23.6
23.6
23.6
23.5

22.7
22.7
22.7
22.7
22.7

21.9
21.9
21.9
21.9
21.9

21.1
21.1
21.1
21.0
21.0

20.3
20.2
20.2
20.2
20.2

19.5
19.4
19.4
19.4
19.4

18.7
18.7
18.6
18.6
18.6

17.9
17.9
17.9
17.9
17.8

105
106
107
108
109

25.3
25.3
25.2
25.2
25.2

24.4
24.4
24.4
24.4
24.4

23.5
23.5
23.5
23.5
23.5

22.7
22.7
22.7
22.7
22.7

21.9
21.9
21.8
21.8
21.8

21.0
21.0
21.0
21.0
21.0

20.2
20.2
20.2
20.2
20.2

19.4
19.4
19.4
19.4
19.4

18.6
18.6
18.6
18.6
18.6

17.8
17.8
17.8
17.8
17.8

110
111
112
113
114

25.2
25.2
25.2
25.2
25.2

24.4
24.4
24.4
24.4
24.4

23.5
23.5
23.5
23.5
23.5

22.7
22.7
22.7
22.7
22.7

21.8
21.8
21.8
21.8
21.8

21.0
21.0
21.0
21.0
21.0

20.2
20.2
20.2
20.2
20.2

19.4
19.4
19.4
19.4
19.4

18.6
18.6
18.6
18.6
18.6

17.8
17.8
17.8
17.8
17.8

115+

25.2

24.4

23.5

22.7

21.8

21.0

20.2

19.4

18.6

17.8

Publication 590 (2013)

Page 105

Appendix C. (Continued)
Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

70

71

72

73

74

75

76

77

78

79

70
71
72
73
74

21.8
21.3
20.9
20.6
20.2

21.3
20.9
20.5
20.1
19.7

20.9
20.5
20.0
19.6
19.3

20.6
20.1
19.6
19.2
18.8

20.2
19.7
19.3
18.8
18.4

19.9
19.4
18.9
18.4
18.0

19.6
19.1
18.6
18.1
17.6

19.4
18.8
18.3
17.8
17.3

19.1
18.5
18.0
17.5
17.0

18.9
18.3
17.7
17.2
16.7

75
76
77
78
79

19.9
19.6
19.4
19.1
18.9

19.4
19.1
18.8
18.5
18.3

18.9
18.6
18.3
18.0
17.7

18.4
18.1
17.8
17.5
17.2

18.0
17.6
17.3
17.0
16.7

17.6
17.2
16.8
16.5
16.2

17.2
16.8
16.4
16.0
15.7

16.8
16.4
16.0
15.6
15.3

16.5
16.0
15.6
15.2
14.9

16.2
15.7
15.3
14.9
14.5

80
81
82
83
84

18.7
18.5
18.3
18.2
18.0

18.1
17.9
17.7
17.5
17.4

17.5
17.3
17.1
16.9
16.7

16.9
16.7
16.5
16.3
16.1

16.4
16.2
15.9
15.7
15.5

15.9
15.6
15.4
15.2
15.0

15.4
15.1
14.9
14.7
14.4

15.0
14.7
14.4
14.2
13.9

14.5
14.2
13.9
13.7
13.4

14.1
13.8
13.5
13.2
13.0

85
86
87
88
89

17.9
17.8
17.7
17.6
17.6

17.3
17.1
17.0
16.9
16.9

16.6
16.5
16.4
16.3
16.2

16.0
15.8
15.7
15.6
15.5

15.4
15.2
15.1
15.0
14.9

14.8
14.6
14.5
14.4
14.3

14.3
14.1
13.9
13.8
13.7

13.7
13.5
13.4
13.2
13.1

13.2
13.0
12.9
12.7
12.6

12.8
12.5
12.4
12.2
12.0

90
91
92
93
94

17.5
17.4
17.4
17.3
17.3

16.8
16.7
16.7
16.6
16.6

16.1
16.0
16.0
15.9
15.9

15.4
15.4
15.3
15.2
15.2

14.8
14.7
14.6
14.6
14.5

14.2
14.1
14.0
13.9
13.9

13.6
13.5
13.4
13.3
13.2

13.0
12.9
12.8
12.7
12.6

12.4
12.3
12.2
12.1
12.0

11.9
11.8
11.7
11.6
11.5

95
96
97
98
99

17.3
17.2
17.2
17.2
17.2

16.5
16.5
16.5
16.4
16.4

15.8
15.8
15.8
15.7
15.7

15.1
15.1
15.1
15.0
15.0

14.5
14.4
14.4
14.3
14.3

13.8
13.8
13.7
13.7
13.6

13.2
13.1
13.1
13.0
13.0

12.6
12.5
12.5
12.4
12.4

12.0
11.9
11.9
11.8
11.8

11.4
11.3
11.3
11.2
11.2

100
101
102
103
104

17.1
17.1
17.1
17.1
17.1

16.4
16.4
16.4
16.3
16.3

15.7
15.6
15.6
15.6
15.6

15.0
14.9
14.9
14.9
14.9

14.3
14.2
14.2
14.2
14.2

13.6
13.6
13.5
13.5
13.5

12.9
12.9
12.9
12.9
12.8

12.3
12.3
12.2
12.2
12.2

11.7
11.7
11.6
11.6
11.6

11.1
11.1
11.0
11.0
11.0

105
106
107
108
109

17.1
17.1
17.0
17.0
17.0

16.3
16.3
16.3
16.3
16.3

15.6
15.6
15.6
15.5
15.5

14.9
14.8
14.8
14.8
14.8

14.2
14.1
14.1
14.1
14.1

13.5
13.5
13.4
13.4
13.4

12.8
12.8
12.8
12.8
12.8

12.2
12.2
12.1
12.1
12.1

11.5
11.5
11.5
11.5
11.5

10.9
10.9
10.9
10.9
10.9

Page 106

Publication 590 (2013)

Appendix C. (Continued)
Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

70

71

72

73

74

75

76

77

78

79

110
111
112
113
114

17.0
17.0
17.0
17.0
17.0

16.3
16.3
16.3
16.3
16.3

15.5
15.5
15.5
15.5
15.5

14.8
14.8
14.8
14.8
14.8

14.1
14.1
14.1
14.1
14.1

13.4
13.4
13.4
13.4
13.4

12.7
12.7
12.7
12.7
12.7

12.1
12.1
12.1
12.1
12.1

11.5
11.5
11.5
11.4
11.4

10.9
10.8
10.8
10.8
10.8

115+

17.0

16.3

15.5

14.8

14.1

13.4

12.7

12.1

11.4

10.8

Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

80

81

82

83

84

85

86

87

88

89

80
81
82
83
84

13.8
13.4
13.1
12.8
12.6

13.4
13.1
12.7
12.4
12.2

13.1
12.7
12.4
12.1
11.8

12.8
12.4
12.1
11.7
11.4

12.6
12.2
11.8
11.4
11.1

12.3
11.9
11.5
11.1
10.8

12.1
11.7
11.3
10.9
10.5

11.9
11.4
11.0
10.6
10.3

11.7
11.3
10.8
10.4
10.1

11.5
11.1
10.6
10.2
9.9

85
86
87
88
89

12.3
12.1
11.9
11.7
11.5

11.9
11.7
11.4
11.3
11.1

11.5
11.3
11.0
10.8
10.6

11.1
10.9
10.6
10.4
10.2

10.8
10.5
10.3
10.1
9.9

10.5
10.2
9.9
9.7
9.5

10.2
9.9
9.6
9.4
9.2

9.9
9.6
9.4
9.1
8.9

9.7
9.4
9.1
8.8
8.6

9.5
9.2
8.9
8.6
8.3

90
91
92
93
94

11.4
11.3
11.2
11.1
11.0

10.9
10.8
10.7
10.6
10.5

10.5
10.3
10.2
10.1
10.0

10.1
9.9
9.8
9.6
9.5

9.7
9.5
9.3
9.2
9.1

9.3
9.1
9.0
8.8
8.7

9.0
8.8
8.6
8.5
8.3

8.6
8.4
8.3
8.1
8.0

8.3
8.1
8.0
7.8
7.6

8.1
7.9
7.7
7.5
7.3

95
96
97
98
99

10.9
10.8
10.7
10.7
10.6

10.4
10.3
10.2
10.1
10.1

9.9
9.8
9.7
9.6
9.6

9.4
9.3
9.2
9.2
9.1

9.0
8.9
8.8
8.7
8.6

8.6
8.5
8.4
8.3
8.2

8.2
8.1
8.0
7.9
7.8

7.8
7.7
7.6
7.5
7.4

7.5
7.4
7.3
7.1
7.0

7.2
7.1
6.9
6.8
6.7

100
101
102
103
104

10.6
10.5
10.5
10.4
10.4

10.0
10.0
9.9
9.9
9.8

9.5
9.4
9.4
9.4
9.3

9.0
9.0
8.9
8.8
8.8

8.5
8.5
8.4
8.4
8.3

8.1
8.0
8.0
7.9
7.9

7.7
7.6
7.5
7.5
7.4

7.3
7.2
7.1
7.1
7.0

6.9
6.9
6.8
6.7
6.6

6.6
6.5
6.4
6.3
6.3

105
106
107
108
109

10.4
10.3
10.3
10.3
10.3

9.8
9.8
9.8
9.7
9.7

9.3
9.2
9.2
9.2
9.2

8.8
8.7
8.7
8.7
8.7

8.3
8.2
8.2
8.2
8.2

7.8
7.8
7.7
7.7
7.7

7.4
7.3
7.3
7.3
7.2

7.0
6.9
6.9
6.8
6.8

6.6
6.5
6.5
6.4
6.4

6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
6.0

110
111
112
113
114

10.3
10.3
10.2
10.2
10.2

9.7
9.7
9.7
9.7
9.7

9.2
9.1
9.1
9.1
9.1

8.6
8.6
8.6
8.6
8.6

8.1
8.1
8.1
8.1
8.1

7.7
7.6
7.6
7.6
7.6

7.2
7.2
7.2
7.2
7.1

6.8
6.8
6.7
6.7
6.7

6.4
6.3
6.3
6.3
6.3

6.0
6.0
5.9
5.9
5.9

115+

10.2

9.7

9.1

8.6

8.1

7.6

7.1

6.7

6.3

5.9

Publication 590 (2013)

Page 107

Appendix C. (Continued)
Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

90

91

92

93

94

95

96

97

98

99

90
91
92
93
94

7.8
7.6
7.4
7.2
7.1

7.6
7.4
7.2
7.0
6.8

7.4
7.2
7.0
6.8
6.6

7.2
7.0
6.8
6.6
6.4

7.1
6.8
6.6
6.4
6.2

6.9
6.7
6.4
6.2
6.0

6.8
6.5
6.3
6.1
5.9

6.6
6.4
6.1
5.9
5.7

6.5
6.3
6.0
5.8
5.6

6.4
6.1
5.9
5.6
5.4

95
96
97
98
99

6.9
6.8
6.6
6.5
6.4

6.7
6.5
6.4
6.3
6.1

6.4
6.3
6.1
6.0
5.9

6.2
6.1
5.9
5.8
5.6

6.0
5.9
5.7
5.6
5.4

5.8
5.7
5.5
5.4
5.2

5.7
5.5
5.3
5.2
5.0

5.5
5.3
5.2
5.0
4.9

5.4
5.2
5.0
4.8
4.7

5.2
5.0
4.9
4.7
4.5

100
101
102
103
104

6.3
6.2
6.1
6.0
5.9

6.0
5.9
5.8
5.7
5.6

5.8
5.6
5.5
5.4
5.4

5.5
5.4
5.3
5.2
5.1

5.3
5.2
5.1
5.0
4.9

5.1
5.0
4.8
4.7
4.6

4.9
4.8
4.6
4.5
4.4

4.7
4.6
4.4
4.3
4.2

4.5
4.4
4.3
4.1
4.0

4.4
4.2
4.1
4.0
3.8

105
106
107
108
109

5.9
5.8
5.8
5.7
5.7

5.6
5.5
5.4
5.4
5.3

5.3
5.2
5.1
5.1
5.0

5.0
4.9
4.9
4.8
4.8

4.8
4.7
4.6
4.6
4.5

4.5
4.5
4.4
4.3
4.3

4.3
4.2
4.2
4.1
4.0

4.1
4.0
3.9
3.9
3.8

3.9
3.8
3.7
3.7
3.6

3.7
3.6
3.5
3.5
3.4

110
111
112
113
114

5.6
5.6
5.6
5.6
5.6

5.3
5.3
5.3
5.2
5.2

5.0
5.0
4.9
4.9
4.9

4.7
4.7
4.7
4.6
4.6

4.5
4.4
4.4
4.4
4.3

4.2
4.2
4.1
4.1
4.1

4.0
3.9
3.9
3.9
3.9

3.8
3.7
3.7
3.6
3.6

3.5
3.5
3.5
3.4
3.4

3.3
3.3
3.2
3.2
3.2

115+

5.5

5.2

4.9

4.6

4.3

4.1

3.8

3.6

3.4

3.1

Page 108

Publication 590 (2013)

Appendix C. (Continued)
Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

100

101

102

103

104

105

106

107

108

109

100
101
102
103
104

4.2
4.1
3.9
3.8
3.7

4.1
3.9
3.7
3.6
3.5

3.9
3.7
3.6
3.4
3.3

3.8
3.6
3.4
3.3
3.2

3.7
3.5
3.3
3.2
3.0

3.5
3.4
3.2
3.0
2.9

3.4
3.2
3.1
2.9
2.7

3.3
3.1
3.0
2.8
2.6

3.3
3.1
2.9
2.7
2.5

3.2
3.0
2.8
2.6
2.4

105
106
107
108
109

3.5
3.4
3.3
3.3
3.2

3.4
3.2
3.1
3.1
3.0

3.2
3.1
3.0
2.9
2.8

3.0
2.9
2.8
2.7
2.6

2.9
2.7
2.6
2.5
2.4

2.7
2.6
2.5
2.4
2.3

2.6
2.4
2.3
2.2
2.1

2.5
2.3
2.2
2.1
2.0

2.4
2.2
2.1
1.9
1.8

2.3
2.1
2.0
1.8
1.7

110
111
112
113
114

3.1
3.1
3.0
3.0
3.0

2.9
2.9
2.8
2.8
2.7

2.7
2.7
2.6
2.6
2.5

2.5
2.5
2.4
2.4
2.3

2.3
2.3
2.2
2.2
2.1

2.2
2.1
2.0
2.0
1.9

2.0
1.9
1.9
1.8
1.8

1.9
1.8
1.7
1.6
1.6

1.7
1.6
1.5
1.5
1.4

1.6
1.5
1.4
1.3
1.3

115+

2.9

2.7

2.5

2.3

2.1

1.9

1.7

1.5

1.4

1.2

Table II (continued)
(Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy)
(For Use by Owners Whose Spouses Are More Than 10 Years Younger and Are the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Ages

110

111

112

113

114

115+

110
111
112
113
114

1.5
1.4
1.3
1.2
1.1

1.4
1.2
1.1
1.1
1.0

1.3
1.1
1.0
1.0
1.0

1.2
1.1
1.0
1.0
1.0

1.1
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0

1.1
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0

115+

1.1

1.0

1.0

1.0

1.0

1.0

Publication 590 (2013)

Page 109

Appendix C. Uniform Lifetime Table

Table III
(Uniform Lifetime)

(For Use by:
Unmarried Owners,

Married Owners Whose Spouses Are Not More Than 10 Years Younger, and
Married Owners Whose Spouses Are Not the Sole Beneficiaries of Their IRAs)

Page 110

Age

Distribution Period

Age

Distribution Period

70
71
72
73
74

27.4
26.5
25.6
24.7
23.8

93
94
95
96
97

9.6
9.1
8.6
8.1
7.6

75
76
77
78
79

22.9
22.0
21.2
20.3
19.5

98
99
100
101
102

7.1
6.7
6.3
5.9
5.5

80
81
82
83
84

18.7
17.9
17.1
16.3
15.5

103
104
105
106
107

5.2
4.9
4.5
4.2
3.9

85
86
87
88
89

14.8
14.1
13.4
12.7
12.0

108
109
110
111
112

3.7
3.4
3.1
2.9
2.6

90
91
92

11.4
10.8
10.2

113
114
115 and over

2.4
2.1
1.9

Publication 590 (2013)

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

10% additional tax 33, 56, 59
20% withholding 27
2­year rule:
SIMPLE IRAs 79
5­year rule 38, 39
6% excise tax on excess
contributions to Roth IRAs 67
60­day period for rollovers 24

A

Account balance 35
Additional taxes 51, 59
(See also Penalties)
Reporting 62
Adjusted gross income (AGI) 16,
64
(See also Modified adjusted gross
income (AGI))
Retirement savings contributions
credit 80
Age 50:
Contributions 10
Age 59 1/2 rule 56
Age 70 1/2 rule 12
Required minimum distributions 35
Age limit:
Traditional IRA 11
Airline payments 70
Alimony 8
Annuity contracts 11
Borrowing on 51
Distribution from insurance
company 41
Distribution from IRA account 50
Early distributions 57
Assistance (See Tax help)

B

Basis:
Inherited IRAs 22
Roth IRAs 70
Traditional IRAs 18
Beginning date, required 35
Beneficiaries 36–39
Change of 35
Death of beneficiary 37
Early distributions to 57
Individual as 38
More than one 37, 40
Not an individual 38
Roth IRAs 76
Sole beneficiary spouse more than
10 years younger 36
Bond purchase plans:
Rollovers from 29
Publication 590 (2013)

Bonds, retirement (See Individual
retirement bonds)
Broker's commissions 10, 12

C

Defined contribution plans 13
Disabilities, persons with:
Early distributions to 57
Distributions:
After required beginning date 35
Age 59 1/2 rule 56
Beneficiaries (See Beneficiaries)
Contributions in same year as 16
Delivered outside U.S. 50
Figuring nontaxable and taxable
amounts 43
From individual retirement
accounts 35
From individual retirement
annuities 35
Fully or partly taxable 43
Income from 16
Inherited IRAs (See Inherited IRAs)
Insufficient 59
Qualified charitable 41
Qualified HSA funding 42
Qualified reservist 59
Roth IRAs 70–75
Ordering rules for 73
Recapture amount 73
SIMPLE IRAs 79
Taxable status of 41
Divorce:
Rollovers by former spouse 28
Transfers incident to 29

Change in marital status 35
Change of beneficiary 35
Charitable distributions,
qualified 41
Collectibles 52
Community property 10
Compensation:
Alimony 8
Defined 8
Income included (Table 1-1) 8
Nontaxable combat pay 8
Self-employment 8
Wages, salaries, etc. 8
Conduit IRAs 27
Contribution limits:
More than one IRA 11
Contributions:
Designating the year 12
Distributions in same year as 16
Excess (See Excess contributions)
Less than maximum 11
Matching (SIMPLE) 78
Nondeductible (See Nondeductible
contributions)
Not required 12
Qualified reservist repayments 10
Recharacterizing (See Recharacteri E
zation)
Early distributions 51, 56–59
Retirement savings contributions
(See also Penalties)
credit 80
Age 59 1/2 rule 56
Roth IRAs 63–68
Defined 56
SIMPLE plans 78, 79
Disability exception 57
Traditional IRAs 10, 11
First-time homebuyers,
When to contribute 11
exception 58
Withdrawing before due date of
Higher education expenses,
return 33
exception 58
Conversions:
Medical insurance, exception 57
From SIMPLE IRAs 79
Roth IRAs 71
To Roth IRAs 68
SIMPLE IRAs 80
Credits:
Tax 33
Retirement savings contributions
Unreimbursed medical expenses,
credit 80, 81
exception 57
Education expenses 58
Employer and employee
D
association trust accounts 9
Death of beneficiary 37
Employer plans:
Deductions:
Covered by 13
Figuring reduced IRA deduction 16
Year(s) covered 13
Phaseout 14
Employer retirement plans 13
Traditional IRAs 12–18
Defined benefit plans 13
Deemed IRAs 3, 63
Defined contribution plans 13
Defined benefit plans 13

Page 111

Effect of modified AGI on deduction
(Table 1-2) 15
Limit if covered by 14
Prohibited transactions 51
Endowment contracts (See Annuity
contracts)
Estate tax 51
Deduction for inherited IRAs 22
Excess accumulations 59–62
Roth IRAs 76
Excess contributions 52–56
Closed tax year 56
Deducted in earlier year 55
Deductible this year (Worksheet
1-6) 55
Deductible this year if any were
deducted in closed tax year
(Worksheet 1-7) 56
Deducting in a later year 55
Due to incorrect rollover
information 55
Recharacterizing 30
Roth IRAs 67
Tax 34
Withdrawn after due date of
return 55
Withdrawn by due date of return 53
Exempt transactions 52
Exxon Valdez settlement
income 29, 70

F

Failed financial institutions 41
Federal judges 13
Fiduciaries:
Prohibited transactions 51
Filing before IRA contribution is
made 12
Filing status 11
Deduction phaseout and 16
Firefighters, volunteer 14
First­time homebuyers 58
Five­year rule (See 5-year rule)
Form 1040:
Modified AGI calculation from 16
Form 1040A:
Modified AGI calculation from 16
Form 1099­R 50
Distribution code 1 used on 62
Letter codes used on 50
Number codes used on 50
Withdrawal of excess
contribution 53
Form 5329 59, 62
Recapture tax 57
Form 8606 17, 43, 48
Failure to file, penalty 17
Form 8880 81
Form W­2:
Employer retirement plans 13
Page 112

Free tax services 81
Frozen deposits 25
Full­time student:
Retirement savings contributions
credit 80

H

Help (See Tax help)
Higher education expenses 58
How to:
Set up an IRA 8
Treat withdrawn contributions 53
HSA funding distributions,
qualified 42

I

Medical expenses,
unreimbursed 57
Medical insurance 57
Military death gratuities 69
Minimum distribution (See Required
minimum distribution)
Missing children, photographs of 3
Modified adjusted gross income
(AGI):
Employer retirement plan coverage
and deduction (Table 1-2) 15
Figuring (Worksheet 1-1) 17
No employer retirement plan
coverage and deduction
(Table 1-3) 15
Roth IRAs 64
Effect on contribution amount
(Table 2-1) 66
More than one beneficiary 37
More than one IRA 11
Recharacterization 32
Required minimum distribution 40

Individual retirement accounts 9
Distributions from 35
Individual retirement annuities 9
Distributions from 35
Individual retirement arrangements
(IRAs):
How to set up 8
N
When to set up 8
Nondeductible contributions 17, 59
Individual retirement bonds 9
Failure to report 17
Cashing in 50
Overstatement penalty 17
Inherited IRAs 18–22
Notice:
Rollovers 25
Qualified employer plan to provide
Insufficient distributions 59
prior to rollover distribution 26
Interest on IRA 3
Rollovers 23
Investment in collectibles:
Collectibles defined 52
P
Exception 52
Partial rollovers 25, 28
Penalties 51–62
K
Early distributions 56–59
Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal
Excess accumulations 59–62
IRAs:
Excess contributions 52–56
Contribution limits 11
Roth IRAs 67
Deductions 12
Exempt transactions 52
Roth IRA contribution limits 64
Failure to file Form 8606 17
Keogh plans:
Overstatement of nondeductible
Rollovers from 28
contributions 17
Prohibited transactions 51, 52
Reporting 62
L
SIMPLE IRAs 80
Last­in first­out rule 33
Phaseout of deduction 14
Life expectancy 36
Pledging account as security 51
Tables (Appendix C) 94
Prohibited transactions 51, 52
Life insurance 28
Taxes on 52
Losses:
Publications (See Tax help)
Roth IRAs 76
Traditional IRAs 48

Q

M

Marital status, change in 35
Matching contributions
(SIMPLE) 78

Qualified charitable
distributions 41
Qualified domestic relations orders
(QDROs) 28
Qualified settlement income 29, 70
Publication 590 (2013)

R

Recapture tax:
Changes in distribution method 57
Receivership distributions 57
Recharacterization 30–32
Determining amount of net income
due to contribution and total
amount to be recharacterized
(Worksheet 1-3) 31
Reporting 32
SIMPLE employer contributions 79
Timing of 32
Reconversion 31
Recordkeeping requirements:
Summary record of traditional IRAs
for 2013 (Appendix A) 86
Traditional IRAs 18
Reporting:
Additional taxes 62
Deductible contributions 17
Nontaxable distribution on Form
8606 43
Recharacterization 32
Rollovers:
From employer plans 29
From IRAs 25
Taxable amounts 50
Taxable distributions 51
Required beginning date 35
Required minimum distribution 3,
34–41
Distribution period 35
During lifetime 36
Figuring 35
For beneficiary 38
Table to use 39
Installments allowed 40
In year of owner's death 36
More than one IRA 40
Sole beneficiary spouse who is
more than 10 years younger 36
Reservists 14
Qualified reservist distribution 59
Qualified reservist repayments 10
Retirement bonds (See Individual
retirement bonds)
Retirement savings contributions
credit 80, 81
Rollovers 22–29
Airline payments 70
Amount 24
Choosing an option (Table 1-5) 27
Completed after 60-day period 24
Conduit IRAs 27
Direct rollover option 27
Extension of period 24
From bond purchase plan 29
From employer's plan into an
IRA 26
Publication 590 (2013)

From employer's plan into a Roth
IRA 69
From Keogh plans 28
From one IRA into another 25
From Roth IRAs 69
From traditional IRA 23
Inherited IRAs 25
Nonspouse beneficiary 26
Notice 23
Partial 25, 28
SIMPLE IRAs 79
Tax treatment of rollover from
traditional IRA to eligible
retirement plan other than an
IRA 23
Time limit 24
To Roth IRAs 68
To traditional IRA 23
Waiting period between 25, 27
Withholding (See Withholding)
Roth IRAs 62–76
Age limit 64
Contribution limit reduced 64
Determining reduced limit
(Worksheet 2-2) 67
Contributions 63–68
Timing of 64
To traditional IRAs and to Roth
IRAs 64
Conversion 29, 30, 68
Defined 63
Distributions 70–75
After death of owner 76
Insufficient 76
Ordering rules for 73
Early distributions 71
Excess accumulations 76
Excess contributions 67
Figuring taxable part 75
Losses 76
Modified AGI:
Effect on contribution amount
(Table 2-1) 66
Figuring (Worksheet 2-1) 65
Rollovers from 69
Setting up 63
Spouse 64
Traditional IRAs converted into 29
Withdrawing or using assets 75

S

Salary reduction arrangement 77
Savings Incentive Match Plans for
Employees (See SIMPLE IRAs)
Section 501(c)(18) plan 10, 11
Self­employed persons:
Deductible contributions 17
Income of 8
SIMPLE plans 77

Separated taxpayers:
Filing status of 16
SEP IRAs:
Recharacterizing to 30
Servicemembers group life
insurance 69
Services received at reduced or no
cost 52
SIMPLE IRAs 77–79
Contributions 78, 79
Conversion from 79
Distributions 79
Early distributions 61, 80
Eligible employees 77
Penalties 80
Recharacterizing to 30
Rollovers 79
Salary reduction contribution
limits 78
Self-employed persons 77
SIMPLE plan, defined 77
Traditional IRA, mistakenly moved
to 30, 79
Two-year rule 79
Withdrawing or using assets 79
Simplified employee pensions
(SEPs) 9
Social Security recipients 14
Contributions to traditional IRAs,
worksheet (Appendix B) 88, 91
Spousal IRAs (See Kay Bailey
Hutchison Spousal IRAs or
Inherited IRAs)
Students:
Education expenses 58
Retirement savings contributions
credit 80
Surviving spouse 36, 39
Rollovers by 28

T

Table I (Single Life Expectancy) 94
Table II (Joint Life and Last
Survivor Expectancy) 96
Table III (Uniform Lifetime) 110
Tables:
Compensation, types of
(Table 1-1) 8
Life expectancy (Appendix C) 94
Modified AGI:
Employer retirement plan
coverage and deduction
(Table 1-2) 15
No employer retirement plan
coverage and deduction
(Table 1-3) 15
Roth IRAs, effect on contribution
(Table 2-1) 66
Rollover vs. direct payment to
taxpayer (Table 1-5) 27
Page 113

Using this publication (Table I-1) 5
Tax advantages of IRAs 3
Tax credits:
Retirement savings contributions
credit 80, 81
Tax help 81
Tax­sheltered annuities:
Rollovers from 28
Tax year 13
Traditional IRAs 7–62
Age 59 1/2 rule 56
Contribution limits 10, 11
Contributions 10, 11
Due date 12
To Roth IRAs and to traditional
IRAs 64
Converting into Roth IRA 29
Cost basis 18
Deductions 12–18
Defined 7
Disclosures 9
Excess contributions 52–56
Inherited IRAs 18–22
Losses 48
Loss of IRA status 52
Mistakenly moved to SIMPLE
IRA 30, 79
Recordkeeping 18
Reduced IRA deduction for
2013 18
Rollovers (See Rollovers)
Setting up 7–10
Social Security recipients 14, 88,
91

Page 114

Summary record for 2013
(Appendix A) 86
Transfers 22
Types of 9
Withdrawing or using assets 32–34
Transfers 22
Divorce 29
To Roth IRAs 22, 68
Trustee to trustee 22, 68
Trustees' fees 10, 12
Trustee­to­trustee transfers 22
To Roth IRAs 68
Trusts:
As beneficiary 40
TTY/TDD information 81
Two­year rule:
SIMPLE IRAs 79

U

Unreimbursed medical
expenses 57

V

Volunteer firefighters 14

W

Withdrawing or using assets:
Contribution withdrawal, before due
date of return 33
Determining total amount to be
withdrawn (Worksheet 1-4) 33

Roth IRAs 75
SIMPLE IRAs 79
Traditional IRAs 32–34
Withholding 50
Direct rollover option 27
Eligible rollover distribution paid to
taxpayer 26
Worksheets:
Excess contributions deductible this
year (Worksheet 1-6) 55
If any were deducted in closed
tax year (Worksheet 1-7) 56
Figuring amount of net income due
to IRA contribution and total
amount to be recharacterized
(Worksheet 1-3) 31
Figuring amount of net income due
to IRA contribution and total
amount to be withdrawn
(Worksheet 1-4) 33
Figuring modified AGI (Worksheet
1-1) 17
Roth IRAs:
Figuring modified AGI
(Worksheet 2-1) 65
Figuring reduced contribution
limit (Worksheet 2-2) 67
Social Security recipients who
contribute to traditional IRAs
(Appendix B) 88, 91

Publication 590 (2013)

