Contents
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Publication 595

Important Reminder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

(Rev. December 2024)

Capital
Construction
Fund for
Commercial
Fishers

Capital Construction Fund (CCF) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

Future Developments
See IRS.gov/Pub595 for the latest information.

Introduction
This publication discusses the fishing vessel Capital Construction Fund (CCF). The CCF is a special investment
program administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), and the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS). This program allows fishers to defer paying income
tax on certain income they invest in a CCF account and
later use to acquire, build, or rebuild fishing vessels.
This publication does not discuss all the tax rules that
may apply to your fishing trade or business. For general
information about the federal tax laws that apply to individuals, including commercial fishers, who file Schedule C
(Form 1040), see Pub. 334, Tax Guide for Small Business.
If your trade or business is a partnership or corporation,
see Pub. 541, Partnerships, or Pub. 542, Corporations.

Important Reminder
Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children selected by the Center may appear in this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

Capital Construction Fund
(CCF)
The following sections discuss CCF accounts and the
types of bookkeeping accounts you must maintain when
you invest in a CCF account. They also discuss the income tax treatment of CCF deposits, earnings, and withdrawals.
Get forms and other information faster and easier at:

• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español) • IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Nov 8, 2024

CCF Accounts
This section explains who can open a CCF account and
how to use the account to defer income tax.

Publication 595 (Rev. 12-2024) Catalog Number 15171E
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

Opening a CCF account. If you are a U.S. citizen and
you own or lease one or more eligible vessels (defined
later), you can open a CCF account. An Investment Guide
showing allowable investments of your CCF money is provided with the application kit. You must open an account
at the approved CCF depository in the name listed on the
CCF agreement and request that the account title include
the abbreviation “CCF.” The account must be separate
from general operating, personal savings or checking accounts, and used only for approved CCF activity. You may,
of course, designate more than one depository in your
CCF agreement. However, before you open your CCF account, you must enter into an agreement with the Secretary of Commerce through the NMFS. After entering the
agreement, additional depositories must be approved by
NMFS. This agreement will establish the following.

• Agreement vessels. Eligible vessels named in the

United States or in the fisheries of the United States.

Vessel weighing less than 5 tons. A small vessel,
weighing at least 2 net tons but less than 5 net tons, must
meet all the following requirements to be considered eligible.

• Be built or rebuilt in the United States.
• Be owned by a U.S. citizen.
• Have a home port in the United States.
• Be operated commercially in the fisheries of the United States.

Deferring tax on CCF deposits and earnings. You can
use a CCF account to defer income tax by taking the following actions.

agreement that will be the basis for the deferral of income tax.

• Making deposits to your CCF account from taxable in-

• Planned use of withdrawals. Use of CCF funds to ac-

• Excluding from income deposits assigned to certain

• CCF depository. Where your CCF funds will be held.

• Making withdrawals from your CCF account when you

quire, build, or rebuild a vessel.

You can request an application kit or get additional information from NMFS at the following address.
NOAA/NMFS, Financial Services Division, F/MB5
Capital Construction Fund Program
1315 East-West Highway, Room 13113
Silver Spring, MD 20910-3282
You can obtain information on the Capital Construction Fund Program at the following website:
www.fisheries.noaa.gov/national/funding-andfinancial-services/capital-construction-fund-program.
You can call NMFS to request an application kit or
get additional information at 301-427-8784.
You may apply at any time, but, to be applicable to

TIP any given tax year, a CCF agreement must be

executed and entered on or before the due date
(with extensions) for filing your Federal tax return for that
tax year. If you decide to enter the CCF program, we urge
you to submit your application as soon as possible, or at
least 45 days prior to your tax due date to ensure timely
execution by NMFS.
Eligible vessels. There are two types of vessels that
may be considered eligible, those weighing 5 tons or more
and those weighing less than 5 tons. For each type, certain requirements must be met.
Vessel weighing 5 tons or more. To be considered
eligible, the vessel must meet all the following requirements.

• Be built or rebuilt in the United States.
• Be documented under the laws of the United States.
2

• Be operated in the foreign or domestic trade of the

come.

accounts (discussed later).

acquire, build, or rebuild fishing vessels.

• Reducing the basis of fishing vessels you acquire,

build, or rebuild to recapture amounts previously excluded from tax.
Reporting requirements. Beginning with the tax

TIP year in which you establish your agreement, you

must report annual deposit and withdrawal activity
to the NMFS on NOAA Form 34-82. The Form 34-82 must
be signed and be attached to a complete copy of the tax
return (as filed with the IRS). This form is due within 30
days after you file your federal income tax return even if no
deposits or withdrawals are made. For more information,
contact the NMFS at the address or phone number given
earlier.

Types of Accounts You Must Maintain
Within a CCF
This section discusses the three types of bookkeeping accounts you must maintain when you invest in a CCF account. Your total CCF deposits and earnings for any given
year are limited to the amount attributed to these three accounts for that year.
Capital account. The capital account consists primarily
of amounts attributable to the following items.
1. Allowable depreciation deductions for agreement vessels.
2. Any nontaxable return of capital from either of the following sources.
a. The sale or other disposition of agreement vessels.
b. Insurance or indemnity proceeds attributable to
agreement vessels.
Publication 595 (12-2024)

3. Any tax-exempt interest earned on state or local
bonds in your CCF account.
Capital gain account. The capital gain account consists
of amounts attributable to the following items reduced by
any capital losses from assets held in your CCF account
for more than 6 months.
1. Any capital gain from either of the following sources.
a. The sale or other disposition of agreement vessels
held for more than 6 months.
b. Insurance or indemnity proceeds attributable to
agreement vessels held for more than 6 months.
2. Any capital gain from assets held in your CCF account for more than 6 months.
Ordinary income account. The ordinary income account consists of amounts attributable to the following
items.
1. Any earnings (without regard to the carryback of any
net operating or net capital loss) from the operation of
agreement vessels in the fisheries of the United
States or in the foreign or domestic trade of the United
States.
2. Any capital gain from the following sources reduced
by any capital losses from assets held in your CCF
account for 6 months or less.
a. The sale or other disposition of agreement vessels
held for 6 months or less.
b. Insurance or indemnity proceeds attributable to
agreement vessels held for 6 months or less.
c. Any capital gain from assets held in your CCF account for 6 months or less.
3. Any ordinary income (such as depreciation recapture)
from either of the following sources.
a. The sale or other disposition of agreement vessels.
b. Insurance or indemnity proceeds attributable to
agreement vessels.
4. Any interest (not including tax-exempt interest from
state and local bonds), most dividends, and other ordinary income earned on the assets in your CCF account.

Tax Treatment of CCF Deposits
This section explains the tax treatment of income used as
the basis for CCF deposits.
Capital gains. Do not report any transaction that produces a capital gain if you deposit the net proceeds into your
CCF account. This treatment applies to either of the following transactions.

• The sale or other disposition of an agreement vessel.
• The receipt of insurance or indemnity proceeds attrib-

Depreciation recapture. Do not report any transaction
that produces depreciation recapture if you deposit the net
proceeds into your CCF account. This treatment applies
to either of the following transactions.

• The sale or other disposition of an agreement vessel.
• The receipt of insurance or indemnity proceeds attributable to an agreement vessel.

Earnings from operations. Report earnings from the
operation of agreement vessels on your Schedule C
(Form 1040) even if you deposit part of these earnings into
your CCF account. You subtract any part of the earnings
you deposited into your CCF account from the amount you
would otherwise enter as taxable income on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 15 (for 2024). Next to line 15, enter “CCF”
and the amount of the deposits. Do not deduct these CCF
deposits on Schedule C (Form 1040).
A deposit into your CCF may reduce your taxable
income. It does not reduce your adjusted gross inCAUTION come.

!

Self-employment tax. You must use your net profit or
loss from your fishing business to figure your self-employment tax. Do not reduce your net profit or loss by any
earnings from operations you deposit into your CCF account.
Partnerships. A partnership that contributes to its
CCF for 2024 should include the contribution amount on
its 2024 Form 1065, Schedule K, line 13e, code AA. The
partnership should also include each partner's share on
that partner's 2024 Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), Part III,
box 13, code AA. An individual partner subtracts its share
from the amount that would normally be entered as taxable income on its 2024 Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15. In
the margin to the left of line 15, enter “CCF” and the
amount of the subtraction. See the 2024 Form 1065, 2024
Instructions for Form 1065, 2024 Schedule K-1 (Form
1065), and the 2024 Partner’s Instructions for Schedule K-1 (Form 1065). A partnership that contributes to its
CCF for a year other than 2024 should use and consult
the above items for that other year.
S corporations. An S corporation that contributes to
its CCF for 2024 should include the contribution amount
on its 2024 Form 1120-S, Schedule K, line 12e, code AA.
The S corporation should also include each shareholder's
share on that shareholder's 2024 Schedule K-1 (Form
1120-S), Part III, box 12, code AA. An individual shareholder subtracts its share from the amount that would normally be entered as taxable income on its 2024 Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 15. In the margin to the left of
line 15, enter “CCF” and the amount of the subtraction.
See the 2024 Form 1120-S, 2024 Instructions for Form
1120-S, 2024 Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), and the 2024
Shareholder's Instructions for Schedule K-1 (Form
1120-S). An S corporation that contributes to its CCF for a
year other than 2024 should use and consult the above
items for that other year.

utable to an agreement vessel.

Publication 595 (12-2024)

3

Tax Treatment of CCF Earnings
This section explains the tax treatment of the earnings
from the assets in your CCF account when the earnings
are redeposited or left in your account. However, if you
choose to withdraw the earnings in the year earned, you
must generally pay income tax on them.
Capital gains. Do not report any capital gains from the
sale of capital assets held in your CCF account. This includes capital gain distributions reported to you on Form
1099-DIV or a substitute statement. However, you should
attach a statement to your tax return to list the payers and
the amounts and to identify the capital gains as “CCF account earnings.”
Interest and dividends. Do not report any ordinary income (such as interest and dividends) you earn on the assets in your CCF account. However, you should attach a
statement to your return to list the payers and the amounts
and to identify them as “CCF account earnings.”
If you are required to file Schedule B (Form 1040), you
can add these earnings to the list of payers and amounts
on line 1 or line 5 (for 2024) and identify them as “CCF
earnings.” Then, subtract the same amounts from the list
and identify them as “CCF deposits.”
Tax-exempt interest. Do not report tax-exempt interest from state or local bonds you held in your CCF account. You are not required to report this interest on Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 2a (for 2024).

erated in the foreign or domestic trade of the United
States or in the fisheries of the United States.
How to determine the source of qualified withdrawals. When you make a qualified withdrawal, the amount is
treated as being withdrawn in the following order from the
accounts listed below.
1. The capital account.
2. The capital gain account.
3. The ordinary income account.
Excluding qualified withdrawals from tax. Do not report on your income tax return any qualified withdrawals
from your CCF account.
Reduce the depreciable basis of fishing vessels
you acquire, build, or rebuild when you make a
CAUTION qualified withdrawal from either the capital gain or
the ordinary income account.

!

Nonqualified Withdrawals
A nonqualified withdrawal from a CCF account is generally
any withdrawal that is not a qualified withdrawal. Qualified
withdrawals are defined under Qualified Withdrawals, earlier.
Examples. Examples of nonqualified withdrawals include the following amounts from either the ordinary income account or the capital gain account.

Tax Treatment of CCF Withdrawals

• Amounts remaining in a CCF account upon termina-

This section discusses the tax treatment of amounts you
withdraw from your CCF account during the year.

• Amounts you withdraw and use to make principal pay-

Qualified Withdrawals
A qualified withdrawal from a CCF account is one that is
approved by NMFS for either of the following uses.

• Acquiring, building, or rebuilding qualified vessels (defined next).

• Making principal payments on indebtedness incurred

in connection with acquiring, building, or rebuilding of
a qualified vessel.

• NMFS will not approve amounts withdrawn to pur-

chase nets not continuously attached to the vessel,
such as seine nets, gill set-nets, and gill drift-nets.

• NMFS will approve amounts withdrawn to purchase
trawl nets.

Qualified vessel. This is any vessel that meets all of the
following requirements.

• The vessel was built or rebuilt in the United States.
• The vessel is documented under the laws of the United States.

• The person maintaining the CCF account agrees with

the Secretary of Commerce that the vessel will be op-

4

tion of your agreement with NMFS.

ments on the indebtedness of a vessel if the basis of
that vessel and the bases of other vessels you own
have already been reduced to zero.

• Amounts determined by the IRS to cause your CCF

account balance to exceed the amount appropriate to
meet your planned use of withdrawals. You will generally be given 3 years to revise your plans to cover this
excess balance.

• Amounts you leave in your account for more than 25

years. There is a graduated schedule under which the
percentage applied to determine the amount of the
nonqualified withdrawal increases from 20% in the
26th year to 100% in the 30th year.

How to determine the source of nonqualified withdrawals. When you make a nonqualified withdrawal from
your CCF account, the amount is treated as being withdrawn in the following order from the accounts listed below.
1. The ordinary income account.
2. The capital gain account.
3. The capital account.
Paying tax on nonqualified withdrawals. In general,
nonqualified withdrawals are taxed separately from your
Publication 595 (12-2024)

other gross income and at the highest marginal tax rate in
effect for the year of withdrawal. However, for taxpayers
who are not corporations, nonqualified withdrawals treated as made from the capital gain account are taxed at a
rate that cannot exceed 20%.
Partnerships. A partnership that makes a nonqualified
withdrawal from its CCF for 2024 should include the
amount on a statement attached to its 2024 Form 1065,
Schedule K, line 20c, code S. The partnership should also
include each partner's share on that partner's 2024
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), Part III, box 20, code S. An individual partner should attach a statement to its federal income tax return to show the computation of the tax and interest for a nonqualified withdrawal. Include the tax and
interest on the 2024 Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 17z. In
the space to the left of line 17z, enter the amount of tax
and interest and “CCF.” See the 2024 Form 1065, 2024 Instructions for Form 1065, 2024 Schedule K-1 (Form
1065), and the 2024 Partner’s Instructions for Schedule K-1 (Form 1065). A partnership that makes a nonqualified withdrawal from its CCF for a year other than 2024
should use and consult the above items for that other year.
S corporations. An S corporation that makes a nonqualified withdrawal from its CCF for 2024 should include
the amount on a statement attached to its 2024 Form
1120-S, Schedule K, line 17d, code Q. The S corporation
should also include each shareholder's share on that
shareholder's 2024 Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), Part III,
box 17, code Q. An individual shareholder should attach a
statement to its federal income tax return to show the
computation of the tax and interest for a nonqualified withdrawal. Include the tax and interest on the 2024 Schedule
2 (Form 1040), line 17z. In the space to the left of line 17z,
enter the amount of tax and interest and “CCF.” See the
2024 Form 1120-S, 2024 Instructions for Form 1120-S,
2024 Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), and the 2024 Shareholder's Instructions for Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S). An
S corporation that makes a nonqualified withdrawal from
its CCF for a year other than 2024 should use and consult
the above items for that other year.
Interest. You must pay interest on the additional tax due
to nonqualified withdrawals that are treated as made from
either the ordinary income or the capital gain account. The
interest period begins on the last date for paying tax for
the year for which you deposited the amount you withdrew
from your CCF account. The period ends on the last date
for paying tax for the year in which you make the nonqualified withdrawal. The interest rate on the nonqualified withdrawal is simple interest. The rate is subject to change annually and is published in the Federal Register.
You can also call NMFS at 301-427-8784 to get
the current interest rate.
Interest deduction. You can deduct the interest you
pay on a nonqualified withdrawal as a trade or business
expense.

Publication 595 (12-2024)

Reporting the additional tax and interest. Attach a
statement to your income tax return showing your computation of the tax and the interest on a nonqualified withdrawal. Include the tax and interest on Schedule 2 (Form
1040), line 17z (for 2024). To the left of the entry space for
line 17z, enter the amount of tax and interest and “CCF.”
Tax benefit rule. If any portion of your nonqualified withdrawal is properly attributable to contributions (not earnings on the contributions) you made to the CCF account
that did not reduce your tax liability for any tax year prior to
the withdrawal year, the following tax treatment applies.
1. The part that did not reduce your tax liability for any
year prior to the withdrawal year is not taxed.
2. That part is allowed as a net operating loss deduction.

More Information
This section briefly discusses the CCF program. For more
detailed information, see the following statutory and regulatory authorities.

• Section 607 of the Merchant Marine Act of 1936, as
amended (46 U.S.C. 53501 through 53517).

• Chapter 2, Part 259 of title 50 of the Code of Federal
Regulations (50 C.F.R., Part 259).

• Subchapter A, Part 3 of title 26 of the Code of Federal
Regulations (26 C.F.R., Part 3).

• Section 7518 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC
7518).

The application kit you can obtain from NMFS at the address or phone number given earlier may contain copies
of some of these sources of additional information. Also,
see their web page at www.fisheries.noaa.gov/national/
funding-and-financial-services/capital-construction-fundprogram.

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.

5

Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online or in your local
community, if you qualify, include the following.

• Direct File. Direct File is a permanent option to file in-

dividual federal tax returns online—for free—directly
and securely with the IRS. Direct File is an option for
taxpayers in participating states who have relatively
simple tax returns reporting certain types of income
and claiming certain credits and deductions. While Direct File doesn't prepare state returns, if you live in a
participating state, Direct File guides you to a
state-supported tool you can use to prepare and file
your state tax return for free. Go to IRS.gov/DirectFile
for more information, program updates, and frequently
asked questions.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your

federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-

fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of income.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• IRS.gov/DirectFile offers an Eligibility Checker to help
you determine if Direct File is the right choice for your
tax filing needs.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EIC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

6

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.

• The First-Time Homebuyer Credit Account Look-up
(IRS.gov/HomeBuyer) tool provides information on
your repayments and account balance.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On
IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
current events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.

• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-

tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your
e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification
number (PTIN).

Although the tax preparer always signs the return,
you're ultimately responsible for providing all the
CAUTION information required for the preparer to accurately
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax
matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

!

Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.

Publication 595 (12-2024)

Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a
partnership, or an S corporation, you can view your tax information on record with the IRS and do more with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/Business-Tax-Account for
more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social
networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English,
Spanish, and ASL.

• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Online tax information in other languages. You can
find information on IRS.gov/MyLanguage if English isn’t
your native language.
Free Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The
IRS is committed to serving taxpayers with limited-English
proficiency (LEP) by offering OPI services. The OPI Service is a federally funded program and is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and
every VITA/TCE tax return site. The OPI Service is accessible in more than 350 languages.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with
disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and
future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats (for example, braille, large print,
audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or
account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000, Alternative
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to
receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the
available disaster tax relief.

Publication 595 (12-2024)

Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instructions, and publications you may need. Or, you can go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You'll need an IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
signatures. You'll have the option to submit your form(s)
online or download a copy for mailing. You'll need scans of
your documents to support your submission. Go to
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
format. Download and view most tax publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple's iBooks for
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.

• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax
year.

• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
plan.

• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
and any pending or scheduled payments.

• Access your tax records, including key data from your
most recent tax return, and transcripts.

• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.

• View your address on file or manage your communication preferences.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
you can access a variety of information to help you during
the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/

7

DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are

six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your
SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

Ways to check on the status of your refund.

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February
for returns that claimed the EIC or the additional
CAUTION child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire
refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

!

Making a tax payment. Payments of U.S. tax must be
remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets are not
accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information on how
to make a payment using any of the following options.

• IRS Direct Pay: Pay your individual tax bill or estimated
tax payment directly from your checking or savings account at no cost to you.

• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment

when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.

8

• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note. The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick, easy, and
faster than mailing in a check or money order.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.

• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/

OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if

you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/Form1040X
for information and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.
It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed
your amended return for it to show up in our sysCAUTION tem, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.

!

Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able use the
Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible IRS
notices and letters by securely uploading required documents online through IRS.gov. For more information, go to
IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
communications, including notices and letters, in English
until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC.
Publication 595 (12-2024)

Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about
most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance that you can get the service you need without long
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TACLocator to
find the nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app,
under the Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and click on “Local Offices.”
————————————————————————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You
What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS,
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to resolve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then
come to TAS. Our services are free.

problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
just isn't working as it should.

• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit

www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help
you with common tax issues and situations, such as
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
you get a notice from the IRS.

• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems

that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)

How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:

• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to
www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights
for
more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
equitable way.

• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS

Publication 595 (12-2024)

9

