Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

Publication 976

(February 2018)
Cat. No. 71006W

Disaster Relief
New for

2017

Contents
Future Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Disaster-Related Relief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Reminder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
2016 Qualified Disaster . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
2017 Qualified Disaster . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Hurricane Harvey Disaster Area . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Hurricane Harvey (or Tropical Storm Harvey)
Covered Disaster Area . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Hurricane Harvey Disaster Zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Hurricane Irma Disaster Area . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Hurricane Irma Covered Disaster Area . . . . . . . . . 5
Hurricane Irma Disaster Zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Hurricane Maria Disaster Area . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Hurricane Maria Covered Disaster Area . . . . . . . . 5
Hurricane Maria Disaster Zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
California Wildfire Disaster Area . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
California Wildfire Covered Disaster Area . . . . . . . 6
California Wildfire Disaster Zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Victims of California Wildfires, Flooding,
Mudflows, and Debris Flows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Extended Tax Deadlines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Charitable Giving Incentives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Temporary Suspension of Limits on
Charitable Contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Casualty and Theft Losses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Qualified Disaster Losses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Election To Deduct Loss in the Preceding
Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Cost Indexes Safe Harbor Method To
Calculate Hurricane-Related Losses to
Personal-Use Residential Real Property . . . . . . 8
Safe Harbor Methods To Determine the
Amount of Your Casualty and Theft
Losses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (TiếngViệt)

IRAs and Other Retirement Plans . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Taxation of Qualified 2016 Disaster
Distributions and Qualified 2017 Disaster
Distributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Repayment of Qualified Disaster Distributions . . . 12
Repayment of Qualified Distributions for the
Purchase or Construction of a Main Home . . . 13
Loans From Qualified Plans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Information for Eligible Retirement Plans . . . . . . 14
Days of Presence in a U.S. Territory . . . . . . . . . . 14
Additional Tax Relief for Individuals . . . . . . . . . . 14
Earned Income Credit and Additional Child
Tax Credit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Mar 01, 2018

Additional Tax Relief for Businesses . . . . . . . . . . 15
Employee Retention Credit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Request for Copy or Transcript of Tax Return . . . 16
Qualified 2016 Disasters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 976, such as legislation enacted after it was
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub976.

Disaster-Related Relief
Special rules for claiming qualified disaster losses.
Personal casualty losses resulting from federally declared
disasters that occurred in 2016, as well as certain 2017
disasters, including Hurricane Harvey and Tropical Storm
Harvey, Hurricane Irma, Hurricane Maria, and the California wildfires, may be claimed as a qualified disaster loss.
This special relief provided is a result of provisions contained in the Disaster Relief and Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2017, the Tax Reform Act of 2017, and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018. These provisions include the
following.
The $100 limitation per casualty has been increased
to $500 for net qualified disaster losses.
The 10% of adjusted gross income limit doesn’t apply
to net qualified disaster losses.
You can claim your standard deduction increased by
your net qualified disaster loss instead of itemizing deductions on Schedule A.
For more information about claiming relief, see Casualty and Theft Losses, later.
Cost indexes safe harbor method to calculate hurricane-related losses. Generally, you must determine the
decrease in the fair market value (FMV) of your lost or
damaged property through either a competent appraisal
or by the cost of repairs you actually made. However, if
you sustained casualty losses for your personal-use residential real property damaged or destroyed by Hurricane
Harvey, Irma, or Maria (or Tropical Storm Harvey), you
may use the cost indexes safe harbor method described
in Revenue Procedure 2018-09, 2018-2 I.R.B 290, available at IRS.gov/irb/2018-02_IRB#RP-2018-09. For more
information, see Cost Indexes Safe Harbor Method To
Calculate Hurricane-Related Losses to Personal-Use
Residential Real Property, later.
Safe harbor methods for individual taxpayers to determine casualty and theft losses. Revenue Procedure
2018-08, 2018-2 I.R.B. 286, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2018-02_IRB#RP-2018-08, provides safe harbor methods
that you may use to figure your casualty and theft losses
Page 2

from personal-use residential property and personal belongings, including some methods applicable only to losses from a federally declared disaster. To figure the
amount of your casualty and theft losses, you generally
must determine the actual reduction in the FMV of lost or
damaged property using a competent appraisal or the
cost of repairs you actually make. But the safe harbor
methods in Revenue Procedure 2018-08 allow you to determine the decrease in FMV in other ways. For more information, see Safe Harbor Methods To Determine the
Amount of Your Casualty and Theft Losses, later.
Extended filing deadline for certain taxpayers. If you
previously obtained a 6-month extension of time to file
your original 2016 return and you are an affected taxpayer
for purposes of Hurricane Harvey or Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane Irma, and the California wildfires, you have
until January 31, 2018, or June 29, 2018, for taxpayers affected by Hurricane Maria in the U.S. Virgin Islands or Puerto Rico to timely file. See IRS.gov/DisasterTaxRelief for
more information on which taxpayers have been granted
additional time to file.
Leave-based donation programs to aid victims of
Hurricane Harvey and Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane Irma and Tropical Storm Irma, Hurricane Maria
and Tropical Storm Maria, or the California wildfires
that began on October 8, 2017. Under these programs,
employees may donate their vacation, sick, or personal
leave in exchange for employer cash payments made before January 1, 2019, to qualified tax-exempt organizations providing relief for the victims of Hurricane Harvey
and Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane Irma and Tropical
Storm Irma, Hurricane Maria and Tropical Storm Maria, or
the California wildfires that began on October 8, 2017.
The donated leave won't be included in the income or wages of the employee. The employer may deduct the cash
payments as business expenses or charitable contributions.
For victims impacted by:
Hurricane Harvey and Tropical Storm Harvey, see Notice 2017-48, 2017-39 I.R.B. 254, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2017-39_IRB#NOT-2017-48.
Hurricane Irma and Tropical Storm Irma, see Notice
2017-52, 2017-40 I.R.B. 262, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2017-40_IRB#NOT-2017-52.
Hurricane Maria and Tropical Storm Maria, see Notice
2017-62, 2017-44 I.R.B. 460, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2017-44_IRB#NOT-2017-62.
California wildfires that began on October 8, 2017,
see Notice 2017-70, 2017-48 I.R.B. 543, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2017-48_IRB#NOT-2017-70.
.
Special rules for tax-favored withdrawals and repayments from certain retirement plans. New rules provide for certain tax-favored withdrawals and repayments
from certain retirement plans for taxpayers who suffered
economic losses as a result of disasters declared by the
President under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act during
Publication 976 (February 2018)

calendar year 2016. New rules also provide for tax-favored withdrawals, repayments, and loans from certain retirement plans for taxpayers who suffered economic losses as a result of Hurricane Harvey and Tropical Storm
Harvey, Hurricane Irma, Hurricane Maria, or the California
wildfires. For more information, see IRAs and Other Retirement Plans, later.
Days of presence. Due to Hurricane Irma and Hurricane
Maria, the 14-day period of absence resulting from a major disaster, which does not count against your days of
presence outside a relevant U.S. territory, has been extended to 268 days. For more information, see Days of
Presence in a U.S. Territory, later.
Additional child tax credit calculations for certain
bona fide residents of Puerto Rico. As part of the disaster tax relief enacted for those impacted by Hurricane
Irma or Hurricane Maria, certain bona fide residents of Puerto Rico may elect to calculate their additional child tax
credit (ACTC) differently. For more information, see Additional child tax credit for bona fide residents of Puerto
Rico, later.

Reminder
Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children selected by the Center may appear in this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

Introduction
This publication explains special tax law provisions to help
taxpayers and businesses to recover from the impact of
2016 qualified disasters and 2017 qualified disasters attributable to Hurricane Harvey and Tropical Storm Harvey,
Hurricane Irma, Hurricane Maria, and the California wildfires. Information is also provided for taxpayers in certain
areas in which the President has declared a major disaster in 2017, including for victims of California wildfires,
flooding, mudflows, and debris flows. For information
about claiming relief, see IRS.gov/DisasterTaxRelief. For
more information on disaster assistance and emergency
relief for individuals and businesses, see IRS.gov/
DisasterRelief. For additional information on 2016 and
2017 federally declared disasters, see FEMA.gov/
Disasters.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and your suggestions for future editions.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or you can write to:

Internal Revenue Service
Tax Forms and Publications
1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526
Washington, DC 20224
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments as we revise our tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering forms and publications. Visit IRS.gov/
FormsPubs to download forms and publications. Otherwise, you can go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current
and prior-year forms and instructions. Your order should
arrive within 10 business days.
Tax questions. If you have a tax question not answered by this publication, check IRS.gov and How To
Get Tax Help at the end of this publication.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publications
526 Charitable Contributions
547 Casualties and Thefts
570 Tax Guide for Individuals With Income From
U.S. Possessions
584 Casualty, Disaster, and Theft Loss Workbook
584-B Business Casualty, Disaster, and Theft Loss
Workbook
590-A Contributions to Individual Retirement
Arrangements (IRAs)
590-B Distributions from Individual Retirement
Arrangements (IRAs)
596 Earned Income Credit
2194 Disaster Resource Guide for Individuals and
Businesses
3833 Disaster Relief—Providing Assistance Through
Charitable Organizations
Forms (and Instructions)
Schedule 8812 (Form 1040A or 1040) Child Tax
Credit
1040-SS U.S. Self-Employment Tax Return
(Including the Additional Child Tax Credit for
Bona Fide Residents of Puerto Rico)
1099-R Distributions From Pensions, Annuities,
Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs,
Insurance Contracts, etc.
4506 Request for Copy of Tax Return
4506-T Request for Transcript of Tax Return
4684 Casualties and Thefts
5884-A Credits for Affected Disaster Area
Employers

Publication 976 (February 2018)

Page 3

8915A Qualified 2016 Disaster Retirement Plan
Distributions and Repayments
8915B Qualified 2017 Disaster Retirement Plan
Distributions and Repayments
See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication for
information about getting these publications and forms.

Definitions
The following definitions are used throughout this publication.

2016 Qualified Disaster
A 2016 qualified disaster is a major disaster declared in
calendar year 2016 for an area determined by the President of the United States under section 401 of the Robert
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
to warrant federal disaster assistance. A 2016 qualified
disaster area is an area for which such a major disaster
was declared. See Qualified 2016 Disasters for a list of
disasters declared by the President in 2016.
Not all special disaster tax relief applies to 2016
qualified disasters. Certain personal casualty loss
CAUTION and retirement plan relief is available for 2016
qualified disasters. Other relief explained in this publication is only available for certain 2017 federally declared
disasters.

!

2017 Qualified Disaster
A 2017 qualified disaster includes Hurricane Harvey
and Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane Irma, Hurricane
Maria, and the California wildfires. These disasters occurred in calendar year 2017 in areas determined by the
President of the United States under section 401 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to warrant federal disaster assistance.
Not all 2017 federally declared disasters are considered 2017 qualified disasters. Only Hurricane
CAUTION Harvey and Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane
Irma, Hurricane Maria, and the California wildfires listed
above are considered 2017 qualified disasters for special
disaster tax relief purposes.

!

Hurricane Harvey Disaster Area
The Hurricane Harvey disaster area covers the area for
which the President declared a major disaster before October 17, 2017, because of Hurricane Harvey. The Hurricane Harvey disaster area covers the entire state of
Texas.
Tropical Storm Harvey in Louisiana is also covered under the definition of the Hurricane Harvey disaster area
and covers the entire state of Louisiana.
Page 4

Hurricane Harvey (or Tropical Storm
Harvey) Covered Disaster Area
A portion of the Hurricane Harvey disaster area has been
designated by the IRS as a covered disaster area. The
Hurricane Harvey (or Tropical Storm Harvey) covered disaster area covers the following counties and
parishes in Louisiana and Texas.
Louisiana. Acadia, Allen, Assumption, Beauregard, Calcasieu, Cameron, De Soto, Iberia, Jefferson Davis, Lafayette, Lafourche, Natchitoches, Plaquemines, Rapides,
Red River, Sabine, St. Charles, St. Mary, Vermilion, and
Vernon.
Texas. Aransas, Austin, Bastrop, Bee, Bexar, Brazoria,
Burleson, Caldwell, Calhoun, Chambers, Colorado, Comal, Dallas, DeWitt, Fayette, Fort Bend, Galveston,
Goliad, Gonzales, Grimes, Guadalupe, Hardin, Harris,
Jackson, Jasper, Jefferson, Jim Wells, Karnes, Kleberg,
Lavaca, Lee, Liberty, Madison, Matagorda, Milam, Montgomery, Newton, Nueces, Orange, Polk, Refugio, Sabine,
San Augustine, San Jacinto, San Patricio, Tarrant, Travis,
Tyler, Victoria, Walker, Waller, Washington, and Wharton.
To ensure correct processing, affected taxpayers
should write in red ink, or type if filing electronically, the
assigned disaster designation (either "Louisiana, Tropical
Storm Harvey" or "Texas, Hurricane Harvey"), at the top of
any forms or documents filed with the IRS. Affected taxpayers can also identify themselves to the IRS or ask hurricane-related questions by calling the special IRS disaster hotline at 1-866-562-5227.

Hurricane Harvey Disaster Zone
The term Hurricane Harvey disaster zone means that
portion of the Hurricane Harvey disaster area determined
by the President to warrant individual or individual and
public assistance from the federal government by reason
of Hurricane Harvey.
The following counties are in the Hurricane Harvey disaster zone.
Texas. Aransas, Austin, Bastrop, Bee, Brazoria, Caldwell, Calhoun, Chambers, Colorado, DeWitt, Fayette, Fort
Bend, Galveston, Goliad, Gonzales, Grimes, Hardin, Harris, Jackson, Jasper, Jefferson, Karnes, Kleberg, Lavaca,
Lee, Liberty, Matagorda, Montgomery, Newton, Nueces,
Orange, Polk, Refugio, Sabine, San Jacinto, San Patricio,
Tyler, Victoria, Walker, Waller, and Wharton.

Hurricane Irma Disaster Area
The Hurricane Irma disaster area covers the area for
which the President declared a major disaster before October 17, 2017, because of Hurricane Irma. The Hurricane
Irma disaster area covers the entire states of Florida,
Georgia, and South Carolina, the territory of the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Publication 976 (February 2018)

Hurricane Irma Covered Disaster
Area
A portion of the Hurricane Irma disaster area has been
designated by the IRS as a covered disaster area. The
Hurricane Irma covered disaster area covers areas in
the following territories and states.
Florida. All 67 counties in Florida.
Georgia. All 159 counties in Georgia.
Puerto Rico. The municipalities of Adjuntas, Aguas Buenas, Barranquitas, Bayamón, Camuy, Carolina, Cataño,
Ciales, Comerío, Culebra, Canóvanas, Dorado, Fajardo,
Guaynabo, Gurabo, Hatillo, Jayuya, Juncos, Las Piedras,
Loíza, Luquillo, Naguabo, Orocovis, Patillas, Quebradillas, Salinas, San Juan, Toa Baja, Utuado, Vega Baja, Vieques, and Yauco.
South Carolina. The counties of Abbeville, Allandale,
Anderson, Bamberg, Barnwell, Beaufort, Berkeley, Charleston, Colleton, Dorchester, Edgefield, Georgetown,
Hampton, Jasper, McCormick, Newberry, Oconee, Pickens, and Saluda.

Puerto Rico. Canovanas, Catano, Culebra, Dorado, Fajardo, Loiza, Luquillo, Toa Baja, Vega Baja, and Vieques.
U.S. Virgin Islands. The Islands of St. John and St. Thomas.

Hurricane Maria Disaster Area
The Hurricane Maria disaster area covers the area for
which the President declared a major disaster before September 21, 2017, because of Hurricane Maria. The Hurricane Maria disaster area covers the entire territory of the
U.S. Virgin Islands and the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico.

Hurricane Maria Covered Disaster
Area
A portion of the Hurricane Maria disaster area has been
designated by the IRS as a covered disaster area. The
Hurricane Maria covered disaster area covers areas in
the following municipalities and islands.
Puerto Rico. All 78 municipalities in Puerto Rico.

U.S. Virgin Islands. The Islands of St. Croix, St. John,
and St. Thomas.

U.S. Virgin Islands. The Islands of St. Croix, St. John,
and St. Thomas.

To ensure correct processing, affected taxpayers
should write in red ink, or type if filing electronically, the
assigned disaster designation (either "Florida, Hurricane
Irma," "Georgia, Hurricane Irma," "U.S. Virgin Islands,
Hurricane Irma," "Puerto Rico, Hurricane Irma," or "South
Carolina, Hurricane Irma"), at the top of any forms or
documents filed with the IRS. Affected taxpayers can also
identify themselves to the IRS or ask hurricane-related
questions by calling the special IRS disaster hotline at
1-866-562-5227.

To ensure correct processing, affected taxpayers
should write in red ink, or type if filing electronically, the
assigned disaster designation (either "Puerto Rico, Hurricane Maria" or "U.S. Virgin Islands, Hurricane Maria"), at
the top of any forms or documents filed with the IRS. Affected taxpayers can also identify themselves to the IRS
or ask hurricane-related questions by calling the special
IRS disaster hotline at 1-866-562-5227.

Hurricane Irma Disaster Zone
The term Hurricane Irma disaster zone means that portion of the Hurricane Irma disaster area determined by the
President to warrant individual or individual and public assistance from the federal government by reason of Hurricane Irma.
The following U.S. counties, municipalities, and islands
are in the Hurricane Irma disaster zone.
Florida. Alachua, Baker, Bradford, Brevard, Broward,
Charlotte, Citrus, Clay, Collier, Columbia, DeSoto, Dixie,
Duval, Flagler, Gilchrist, Glades, Hamilton, Hardee, Hendry, Hernando, Highlands, Hillsborough, Indian River, Lafayette, Lake, Lee, Levy, Manatee, Marion, Martin, Miami-Dade, Monroe, Nassau, Okeechobee, Orange,
Osceola, Palm Beach, Pasco, Pinellas, Polk, Putnam,
Sarasota, Seminole, St. Johns, St. Lucie, Sumter, Suwannee, Union, and Volusia.
Georgia. Camden, Charlton, Chatham, Coffee, Glynn,
Liberty, and McIntosh.
Publication 976 (February 2018)

Hurricane Maria Disaster Zone
The term Hurricane Maria disaster zone means that
portion of the Hurricane Maria disaster area determined
by the President to warrant individual or individual and
public assistance from the federal government by reason
of Hurricane Maria.
The following municipalities and islands are in the Hurricane Maria disaster zone.
Puerto Rico. All 78 municipalities in Puerto Rico.
U.S. Virgin Islands. The Islands of St. Croix, St. John,
and St. Thomas.

California Wildfire Disaster Area
The California wildfire disaster area covers the area for
which the President declared a major disaster between
January 1, 2017, through January 18, 2018, because of
the California wildfires. The California wildfire disaster
area covers the entire state of California.
Page 5

California Wildfire Covered Disaster
Area
A portion of the California wildfire disaster area has been
designated by the IRS as a covered disaster area. The
California wildfire covered disaster area covers Butte,
Lake, Mendocino, Napa, Nevada, Orange, Solano, Sonoma, and Yuba counties.
To ensure correct processing, affected taxpayers
should write in red ink, or type if filing electronically, the
assigned disaster designation, “California, Wildfires,” at
the top of any forms or documents filed with the IRS. Affected taxpayers can also identify themselves to the IRS
or ask wildfire-related questions by calling the special IRS
disaster hotline at 1-866-562-5227.

California Wildfire Disaster Zone
The term California wildfire disaster zone means that
portion of the California wildfire disaster area determined
by the President to warrant individual or individual and
public assistance from the federal government by reason
of the California wildfires.
The following counties are in the California wildfire disaster zone.
California. Butte, Lake, Mendocino, Napa, Nevada, Orange, Sonoma, and Yuba.

Victims of California Wildfires,
Flooding, Mudflows, and Debris
Flows

applies to deadlines (either an original or extended due
date) that occur during the following periods.
After August 22, 2017, and before January 31, 2018,
for Texas taxpayers affected by Hurricane Harvey.
After August 26, 2017, and before January 31, 2018,
for Louisiana taxpayers affected by Tropical Storm
Harvey.
After September 3, 2017, and before January 31,
2018, for Florida taxpayers affected by Hurricane
Irma.
After September 4, 2017, and before January 31,
2018, for U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico taxpayers affected by Hurricane Irma.
After September 5, 2017, and before January 31,
2018, for South Carolina taxpayers affected by Hurricane Irma.
After September 6, 2017, and before January 31,
2018, for Georgia taxpayers affected by Hurricane
Irma.
After September 15, 2017, and before June 29, 2018,
for U.S. Virgin Islands taxpayers affected by Hurricane
Maria.
After September 16, 2017, and before June 29, 2018,
for Puerto Rico taxpayers affected by Hurricane Maria.
After October 7, 2017, and before January 31, 2018,
for taxpayers affected by the California wildfires.
After December 3, 2017, and before April 30, 2018,
for taxpayers affected by the California wildfires,
flooding, mudflows, and debris flows.

The California wildfires, flooding, mudflows, and debris flows covered disaster area has been designated
by the IRS and covers Los Angeles, San Diego, Santa
Barbara, and Ventura counties.

Affected taxpayer. The following taxpayers are eligible
for the extension.

To ensure correct processing, affected taxpayers
should write in red ink, or type if filing electronically, the
assigned disaster designation, “California, Wildfires,
Flooding, Mudflows, and Debris Flows,” at the top of any
forms or documents filed with the IRS. Affected taxpayers
can also identify themselves to the IRS or ask related
questions by calling the special IRS disaster hotline at
1-866-562-5227.

Any business entity or sole proprietor whose principal
place of business is located in a covered disaster
area.

Extended Tax Deadlines
The IRS has extended deadlines that apply to filing returns, paying taxes, and performing certain other
time-sensitive acts for certain taxpayers affected by Hurricane Harvey, Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane Irma, or
the California wildfires, until January 31, 2018; until April
30, 2018, for taxpayers affected by the California wildfires, flooding, mudflows, and debris flows; or until June
29, 2018, for taxpayers affected by Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The extension
Page 6

Any individual whose main home is located in a covered disaster area.

Any individual who is a relief worker affiliated with a
recognized government or philanthropic organization
and who is assisting in a covered disaster area.
Any individual, business entity, or sole proprietorship
whose records are needed to meet a postponed tax
deadline, provided those records are maintained in a
covered disaster area. The main home or principal
place of business doesn't have to be located in the
covered disaster area.
Any estate or trust that has tax records necessary to
meet a postponed tax deadline, provided those records are maintained in a covered disaster area.
The spouse on a joint return with a taxpayer who is eligible for postponements.
Any individual, business entity, or sole proprietorship
not located in a covered disaster area, but whose
Publication 976 (February 2018)

records necessary to meet a postponed tax deadline
are located in the covered disaster area.
Any individual visiting the covered disaster area who
was killed or injured as a result of the disaster.
Any other person determined by the IRS to be affected by a federally declared disaster.
Acts extended. Deadlines for performing the following
acts are extended.
Filing any return of income, estate, gift, generation-skipping transfer, excise, or employment tax.
Paying any income, estate, gift, generation-skipping
transfer, excise, or employment tax. This includes
making estimated tax payments.
Making certain contributions, distributions, recharacterizing contributions, or making a rollover to or from a
qualified retirement plan.
Filing certain petitions with the Tax Court.
Filing a claim for credit or refund of any tax.
Bringing suit upon a claim for credit or refund.
Certain other acts described in Revenue Procedure
2007-56, 2007-34 I.R.B. 388, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2007-34_IRB#RP-2007-56.
Forgiveness of interest and penalties. The IRS may
forgive the interest and penalties on any underpaid income, estate, gift, employment, or excise tax for the
length of any extension.

Charitable Giving Incentives
Temporary Suspension of Limits on
Charitable Contributions
Individuals. In most cases, the amount of charitable contributions you can deduct on Schedule A as an itemized
deduction is limited to a percentage (usually 50%) of your
adjusted gross income (AGI) and by an overall limitation
on itemized deductions. Qualified contributions are not
subject to these two limitations. But see Limitation, later,
for a limit that does apply. A “qualified contribution” must
meet the following criteria.
It is a charitable contribution paid in cash or check after August 22, 2017, and before January 1, 2018, for
Hurricane Harvey or Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane
Irma, or Hurricane Maria; or after October 7, 2017,
and before January 1, 2018, for California wildfires.
It is paid to a 50% limit organization (other than certain
private foundations described in section 509(a)(3)).
It is payable for relief efforts in the Hurricane Harvey
disaster area, the Hurricane Irma disaster area, the
Hurricane Maria disaster area, or the California wildfire disaster area.

Publication 976 (February 2018)

You obtain contemporaneous written acknowledgement (within the meaning of section 170(f)(8)) from the
organization that such contribution was used for relief
efforts.
You elect to treat the charitable contribution as a qualified contribution.
Exception. Qualified contributions don’t include a contribution to a segregated fund or account for which you (or
any person you appoint or designate) have or expect to
have advisory privileges with respect to distributions or investments based on your contribution.
Limitation. Your deduction for qualified contributions
is limited to your AGI minus your deduction for all other
charitable contributions. You can carry over any contributions you are not able to deduct for 2017 because of this
limit. In 2018, treat the carryover of your unused qualified
contributions as a carryover of contributions subject to the
50% limit.
Election. You make the election by entering the
amount of your qualified contributions on the dotted line
next to line 16 of Schedule A. Be sure to also include this
amount in the total you report on line 16.
Corporations. A corporation (other than an S corporation) may elect to deduct qualified cash contributions without regard to the 10% taxable income limit if the contributions were made for relief efforts after August 22, 2017,
and before January 1, 2018, for Hurricane Harvey or Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane Irma, or Hurricane Maria; or
after October 7, 2017, and before January 1, 2018, for
California wildfires, to a qualified charitable organization
(other than certain private foundations described in section 509(a)(3)) or donor advised funds described in section 4966(d)(2). The corporation's deduction for these
qualified contributions is limited to 100% of taxable income (as modified for the 10% limit) minus the corporation's deduction for all other charitable contributions. Any
qualified contributions over this limit can be carried over to
the next 5 years, subject to the 10% limit.
Partners and shareholders. Each partner in a partnership and each shareholder in an S corporation makes a
separate election to have the appropriate limit not apply.
More information. For more information, see Pub. 526,
Charitable Contributions. Pub. 526 includes a worksheet
you can use to figure your deduction if any limits apply to
your charitable contributions.

Casualty and Theft Losses
The following section provides information on special relief related to personal casualty losses. For more information, see Form 4684, Casualties and Thefts, and its separate instructions, and Pub. 547.

Page 7

Qualified Disaster Losses
Personal casualty losses resulting from federally declared
disasters that occurred in 2016, as well as Hurricane Harvey or Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane Irma, Hurricane
Maria, and the California wildfires that occurred in 2017,
may be claimed as a qualified disaster loss on your Form
4684. You can deduct 2016 and 2017 qualified disaster
losses for both regular and AMT purposes without itemizing other deductions on Schedule A. Moreover, your net
casualty loss from these qualified disasters does not need
to exceed 10% of your AGI to qualify for the deduction,
but the $100 limit per casualty is increased to $500. See
Qualified 2016 Disasters, later, for a list of 2016 federally
declared disasters, and Qualified 2017 disaster losses
next.
Qualified 2017 disaster losses. A qualified 2017 disaster loss is a personal casualty loss caused by:
Hurricane Harvey or Tropical Storm Harvey in the Hurricane Harvey disaster area after August 22, 2017,
Hurricane Irma in the Hurricane Irma disaster area after September 3, 2017,
Hurricane Maria in the Hurricane Maria disaster area
after September 15, 2017, or the
California wildfires in the California wildfire disaster
area after October 7, 2017.
In addition, the federal disaster declaration must have
been made before September 21, 2017, for Hurricane
Maria; before October 17, 2017, for Hurricane Harvey or
Tropical Storm Harvey and Hurricane Irma; and between
January 1, 2017, through January 18, 2018, for California
wildfires.
See Form 4684 and its separate instructions for information and computational rules on claiming the special relief for these qualified disaster losses when completing
line 11 and line 15 of Form 4684.

Election To Deduct Loss in the
Preceding Year
Casualty and theft losses are generally deductible only in
the year the loss was sustained. A loss is generally sustained in the year in which the casualty or theft occurred.
A loss may be treated as sustained in a later year if, for
example, a claim for reimbursement from insurance is
pending in the year in which the casualty or theft occurred.
However, if you have a casualty loss attributable to a federally declared disaster that occurred in an area warranting public or individual assistance (or both), you can elect
to deduct the loss in the tax year immediately before the
loss was sustained. Therefore, if you sustained a qualified
2017 disaster loss, you may choose to take the loss into
account on your 2016 tax return instead of your 2017 tax
return. A list of areas warranting public or individual assistance (or both) is available at the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) website at FEMA.gov/
Disasters.
Page 8

This election must be made by filing your return or
amended return for the earlier year, and claiming your disaster loss on it, on or before the date that is six months after the regular due date for filing your original return (without extensions) for the disaster year. For most people,
that means you can make the election to deduct a disaster
loss sustained in 2017 on your amended 2016 return on
or before October 15, 2018.
If you previously obtained a 6-month extension of time
to file your original 2016 return and you are an affected
taxpayer as a result of a qualified 2017 disaster loss, you
have until January 31, 2018, to timely file and make this
election, except that taxpayers affected by Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands have until June
29, 2018, to do so.
Claiming qualified 2017 disaster losses on an original or amended 2016 return. If you are filing or amending your 2016 tax return, write “Federally Declared Disaster” if you have a qualified 2017 disaster loss across the
top of your Form 1040, Form 1040NR, or Form 1040X
(whichever applies). You must also complete and attach
Schedule A and the 2016 Form 4684. If you already filed
your 2016 tax return, you can amend it to claim your qualified disaster loss by filing a Form 1040X. See the 2016 Instructions for Form 4684 for more information.
If you have not filed your 2016 tax return and you want
to deduct or increase your standard deduction by your net
qualified disaster loss on your 2016 tax return, you must
file on paper. You may not file electronically. Use either
Form 1040 or Form 1040NR. Write “Federally Declared
Disaster” across the top of your paper tax return. To figure
your net qualified disaster loss, see the Instructions for
Form 4684.

Cost Indexes Safe Harbor Method To
Calculate Hurricane-Related Losses
to Personal-Use Residential Real
Property
Revenue Procedure 2018-09, 2018-2 I.R.B. 290, available
at IRS.gov/irb/2018-02_IRB#RP-2018-09, provides a safe
harbor method you may use to calculate the amount of
your casualty losses for your personal-use residential real
property damaged or destroyed in Texas, Louisiana, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the territory of the U.S. Virgin Islands as a result of Hurricane Harvey, Tropical Storm Harvey,
Hurricane Irma, or Hurricane Maria.
To figure your casualty losses, you generally must determine the decrease in the fair market value (FMV) of the
damaged property using a competent appraisal or the
cost of repairs you actually make. But Revenue Procedure
2018-09 provides a safe harbor method that allows you to
determine the decrease in the FMV of your personal-use
residential real property in other ways. If you qualify for
and use the cost indexes safe harbor method described in
Revenue Procedure 2018-09, the IRS will not challenge
your determination. The use of the cost indexes safe
Publication 976 (February 2018)

harbor method described in Revenue Procedure 2018-09
is not mandatory.
Under the cost indexes safe harbor method, you may
use one or more cost indexes to figure the casualty loss to
your personal-use residential real property. The cost indexes safe harbor method may be used if you suffered
any losses listed under Damage categories, later.
Revenue Procedure 2018-09 provides tables and calculation methods to determine the decrease in the FMV
for each category based on the cost per square foot or
percentage of damage, the size of the property, and the
geographic location.
Personal-use residential real property. Personal-use
residential real property generally is real property, including improvements, that is owned by the individual who
suffered a casualty loss and that contains at least one personal residence. It does not include a personal residence
if any part of the personal residence is used as rental
property or contains a home office used in a trade or business or transaction entered into for profit. For this purpose, a personal residence is a single-family residence or
a single unit within a townhouse, duplex, or similar group
of attached units. It includes any enclosed structures attached to the residence or unit, such as a garage. It does
not include a deck or screened-in porch. It also does not
include a mobile home, trailer, condominium, or any other
buildings in which you have less than full ownership in all
of the structural components, such as the roof, foundation,
or exterior walls.
Personal-use residential real property does not include residential rental property, a residence that
CAUTION contains a home office, or a structure that contains five or more residential units.

!

Improvements. The cost indexes safe harbor method
applies only to three types of improvements on personal-use residential real property.
A personal residence.
A detached structure of enclosed wood-frame construction, with some electrical capabilities, no heating
or air conditioning, and little or no interior finishing.
A deck.
Damage categories. Revenue Procedure 2018-09 provides seven index tables that correspond to each of the
categories listed below and information on how to calculate the decrease in the FMV of personal-use residential
real property in each of the tables. The tables include the
cost per square foot, taking into account the personal residence size or percentage of damage to the residence and
the location. The damage categories are:
Total loss of a personal residence;
Near total loss of a personal residence;
Interior flooding of more than one foot in a personal
residence;
Structural damage from wind, rain, or debris to a personal residence;
Publication 976 (February 2018)

Roof covering damage from wind, rain, or debris to a
personal residence;
Damage to a detached structure; and
Damage to decking.
Special rules apply if you need to use multiple categories. See Revenue Procedure 2018-09.
Total loss of a personal residence. You had a total
loss of a personal residence if, during one of the 2017 hurricanes, the residence sustained damage that caused any
of the following.
The personal residence either collapsed or became
structurally unsound.
The state or local government (or a political subdivision of either) has ordered that the personal residence
be demolished or relocated.
You sold the personal residence to an unrelated party
for a price that reflects the FMV solely of the land on
which the residence sits.
A near total loss of the residence and you demolished
the residence.
Near total loss of a personal residence. A near total
loss of a personal residence occurred if, during one or
more of the 2017 hurricanes, the residence sustained severe damage requiring you to remove and dispose of substantially all interior wall frame coverings (including drywall), floorings, electrical lines, ducts, plumbing, and other
fixtures. To qualify, only the wood frame, rafters, and outside facade of the personal residence can remain structurally sound and reusable.
Structural damage from wind, rain, or debris to a
personal residence. Structural damage from wind, rain,
or debris occurred if, during one or more of the 2017 hurricanes, a personal residence sustained major structural
damage to the roof and/or outside wall(s) from wind or
windblown debris that exposed part or all of the residence's interior to rain or debris, requiring substantial renovation of the damaged areas. Substantial renovation requires the removal and replacement of drywall or other
wall frame coverings, replacement of trim, and repair and
painting of the damaged interior areas of the personal residence.
Damage to a detached structure. Damage to a detached structure occurred if the structure sustained damage during one or more of the 2017 hurricanes that required either complete or major rebuilding.
Increases to safe harbor loss amount. The decrease
in the FMV determined under the safe harbor is the full
amount of the decrease and cannot be increased by
amounts related to items such as landscaping, debris removal, or demolition.
Decreases to safe harbor loss amount. The loss determined through this method must be reduced by the
value of any repairs provided by a third party at no cost
(for example, work done by volunteers or via donations) to
you. Figure the value of a no-cost repair by multiplying the
Page 9

total square footage completely repaired at no cost to you
by the same cost index used to determine the decrease in
the FMV of the property.
Additionally, reduce your loss by the amount of any insurance, reimbursements, or other compensation received.
Reporting requirements on Form 4684. Attach a statement to Form 4684 stating that you used Revenue Procedure 2018-09 to determine the amount of your casualty
loss. Include the specific table number used. When completing Form 4684, don’t enter an amount on line 5 or
line 6 for each property. Instead, enter the decrease in the
FMV determined using the safe harbor method on line 7.
For additional information, see Revenue Procedure
2018-09. You may qualify to use other safe harbor methods as well. See Revenue Procedure 2018-08 for more information.

Safe Harbor Methods To Determine
the Amount of Your Casualty and
Theft Losses
Revenue Procedure 2018-08, 2018-2 I.R.B. 286, available
at IRS.gov/irb/2018-02_IRB#RP-2018-08, provides safe
harbor methods that you may use to figure your casualty
and theft losses to your personal-use residential property
and personal belongings, including some methods applicable only to losses from a federally declared disaster. To
figure the amount of your casualty and theft losses, you
generally must determine the actual reduction in the FMV
of lost or damaged property using a competent appraisal
or the cost of repairs you actually make. But the safe harbor methods in Revenue Procedure 2018-08 allow you to
determine the decrease in FMV in other ways. The use of
a safe harbor method described in Revenue Procedure
2018-08 is not mandatory.
Personal-use residential real property safe harbor
methods. Personal-use residential real property generally is real property, including improvements, that is
owned by the individual who suffered a casualty loss and
that contains at least one personal residence. It does not
include a personal residence if any part of the personal
residence is used as rental property or contains a home
office used in a trade or business or transaction entered
into for profit. For more details, see Revenue Procedure
2018-08.
The safe harbor methods for personal-use residential
real property available through Revenue Procedure
2018-08 are the following.
Estimated repair cost method.
De minimis method.
Insurance method.
Federally declared disaster method—Contractor safe
harbor.
Federally declared disaster method—Disaster loan
appraisal.
Page 10

Estimated repair cost method. The estimated repair
cost safe harbor method allows you to figure the decrease
in the FMV of your personal-use residential real property
using the lesser of two repair estimates prepared by separate and independent licensed contractors. The estimates
must detail the itemized costs to restore your property to
its condition immediately before the casualty. The estimated repair cost safe harbor method is limited to casualty
losses of $20,000 or less.
De minimis method. The de minimis safe harbor
method allows you to figure the decrease in the FMV of
your personal-use residential real property based on a
written good-faith estimate of the cost of repairs required
to restore your property to its condition immediately before
the casualty. You must keep documentation showing how
you estimated the amount of your loss. The de minimis
safe harbor method is available for casualty losses of
$5,000 or less.
Insurance method. The insurance safe harbor
method allows you to figure the decrease in the FMV of
your personal-use residential real property based upon
the estimated loss in reports prepared by your homeowners' or flood insurance company. These reports must set
forth the estimated loss you sustained from the damage to
or the destruction of your property.
Federally declared disaster method—Contractor
safe harbor. If the loss occurred in a disaster area and
was due to a federally declared disaster, then you may
use the contractor safe harbor method or the disaster loan
appraisal method. Under the contractor safe harbor
method, you may use the contract price for the repairs
specified in a contract prepared by an independent and licensed contractor to determine the decrease in the FMV
of your personal-use residential real property. This safe
harbor method does not apply unless you are subject to a
binding contract signed by you and the contractor setting
forth the itemized costs to restore your personal-use residential real property to its condition immediately before
the casualty.
Federally declared disaster method—Disaster
loan appraisal. Under the disaster loan appraisal safe
harbor method, you may use an appraisal prepared to obtain a loan of federal funds or a loan guarantee from the
federal government that identifies your estimated loss
from a federally declared disaster to determine the decrease in the FMV of your personal-use residential real
property.
Personal belongings safe harbor methods. Personal
belongings generally include items of tangible personal
property owned by an individual who suffered a casualty
or theft loss if they are not used in a trade or business.
Personal belongings do not include an item that maintains
or increases its value over time or certain other types of
property. For more details, see Revenue Procedure
2018-08.
The safe harbor methods for personal belongings are
the de minimis method and the replacement cost safe harbor method for federally declared disasters. Under the de
Publication 976 (February 2018)

minimis method, you can make a good faith estimate of
the decrease in the FMV of your personal belongings. You
must maintain records describing your affected personal
belongings as well as your methodology for estimating
your loss. This method is limited to losses of $5,000 or
less.
The replacement cost safe harbor method for federally
declared disasters allows you to determine the FMV of
your personal belongings located in a disaster area immediately before a federally declared disaster to figure the
amount of your casualty or theft loss. To use the replacement cost safe harbor method, you must first determine
the current cost to replace each of your personal belongings with a new item and then reduce that amount by 10%
for each year you have owned each personal belonging.
See Personal Belongings Valuation Table in Revenue
Procedure 2018-08 in the Replacement Cost Safe Harbor
Method. If you choose to use the replacement cost safe
harbor method, then you must use that method for all your
personal belongings, with certain exceptions identified in
Revenue Procedure 2018-08.
Each of these safe harbor methods is subject to additional rules and exceptions. For additional information,
see Revenue Procedure 2018-08.
Decreases to safe harbor loss amount. The loss determined through the safe harbor methods must be reduced by the value of any repairs provided by a third party
at no cost (for example, work done by volunteers or via
donations) to you. Additionally, reduce your loss by the
amount of any insurance, reimbursements, or other compensation received.
Reporting requirements on Form 4684. Attach a statement to Form 4684 stating that you used Revenue Procedure 2018-08 to determine the amount of your casualty
loss. Include the specific safe harbor method used. When
completing Form 4684, do not enter an amount on line 5
or line 6 for each property. Instead, enter the decrease in
the FMV determined under the relevant safe harbor
method on line 7.

IRAs and Other Retirement
Plans
New rules provide for tax-favored withdrawals and repayments from certain retirement plans for taxpayers who suffered economic losses as a result of disasters declared by
the President under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act during calendar year 2016. See Qualified 2016 Disasters for a list of
2016 disasters declared by the President.
New rules also provide for tax-favored withdrawals, repayments, and loans from certain retirement plans for taxpayers who suffered economic losses as a result of Hurricane Harvey or Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane Irma,
Hurricane Maria, or the California wildfires.
The principles set forth in Notice 2005-92, 2005-51
I.R.B.
165,
available
at
IRS.gov/irb/
Publication 976 (February 2018)

2005-51_IRB#NOT-2005-92, which provides guidance on
the tax-favored treatment of distributions and plan loans
for victims of Hurricane Katrina, also generally apply to
these new rules.
Certain information for eligible retirement plans is provided at the end of this section.

Definitions
Qualified 2016 disaster distribution. A qualified 2016
disaster distribution is any distribution you received from
an eligible retirement plan made on or after January 1,
2016, and before January 1, 2018, if at any time during
the calendar year 2016 your main home was located in a
major disaster area declared by the President under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act and you sustained an economic loss by reason of the events giving rise to such
Presidential declaration. If the previous sentence applies
to you, you can generally designate any distribution (including a periodic payment or a required minimum distribution) from an eligible retirement plan as a qualified 2016
disaster distribution, regardless of whether the distribution
was made on account of a federally declared disaster in
calendar year 2016. Qualified 2016 disaster distributions
are permitted without regard to your need or the actual
amount of your economic loss, described later.
The total of your qualified 2016 disaster distributions
from all plans is limited to $100,000. If you have distributions from more than one type of plan, such as a 401(k)
plan and an IRA, and the total exceeds $100,000, you
may allocate the $100,000 limit among the plans by any
reasonable method.
Qualified 2017 disaster distribution. A qualified 2017
disaster distribution is any distribution you received from
an eligible retirement plan if all of the following apply.
1. The distribution was made:
a. After August 22, 2017, and before January 1,
2019, for Hurricane Harvey or Tropical Storm Harvey;
b. After September 3, 2017, and before January 1,
2019, for Hurricane Irma;
c. After September 15, 2017, and before January 1,
2019, for Hurricane Maria; or
d. After October 7, 2017, and before January 1,
2019, for California wildfires.
2. Your main home was located in a disaster area listed
below on the date or any date in the period shown for
that area.
a. August 23, 2017, for the Hurricane Harvey disaster area.
b. September 4, 2017, for the Hurricane Irma disaster area.
c. September 16, 2017, for the Hurricane Maria disaster area.
Page 11

d. October 8, 2017, to December 31, 2017, for the
California wildfire disaster area.
3. You sustained an economic loss because of Hurricane Harvey or Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane
Irma, Hurricane Maria, or the California wildfires.
If 1 through 3 above apply, you can generally designate
any distribution (including a periodic payment or a required minimum distribution) from an eligible retirement
plan as a qualified 2017 disaster distribution, regardless of
whether the distribution was made on account of Hurricane Harvey or Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane Irma,
Hurricane Maria, or the California wildfires. Qualified 2017
disaster distributions are permitted without regard to your
need or the actual amount of your economic loss, described later.
The total of your qualified 2017 disaster distributions
from all plans is limited to $100,000 for Hurricane Harvey,
Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane Irma, or Hurricane Maria, and $100,000 for the California wildfires. If you have
distributions from more than one type of plan, such as a
401(k) plan and an IRA, and the total exceeds $100,000
for either category, you may allocate the $100,000 limit
among the plans by any reasonable method.
A reduction or offset (after August 22, 2017, for Hurricane Harvey or Tropical Storm Harvey; after September
3, 2017, for Hurricane Irma; after September 15, 2017, for
Hurricane Maria; or after October 7, 2017, for California
wildfires) of your account balance in an eligible retirement
plan in order to repay a plan loan can also be designated
as a qualified disaster distribution.
Economic loss. Qualified disaster distributions are permitted without regard to your need or the actual amount of
your economic loss. Examples of an economic loss include, but are not limited to:
1. Loss, damage to, or destruction of real or personal
property from fire, flooding, looting, vandalism, theft,
wind, or other cause;
2. Loss related to displacement from your home; or
3. Loss of livelihood due to temporary or permanent layoffs.
Eligible retirement plan. An eligible retirement plan can
be any of the following.
A qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus
plan (including a 401(k) plan).
A qualified annuity plan.
A tax-sheltered annuity contract.
A governmental section 457 deferred compensation
plan.
A traditional, SEP, SIMPLE, or Roth IRA.
Main home. Generally, your main home is the home
where you live most of the time. A temporary absence due
to special circumstances, such as illness, education, business, military service, evacuation, or vacation, will not
change your main home.
Page 12

Taxation of Qualified 2016 Disaster
Distributions and Qualified 2017
Disaster Distributions
Qualified 2016 disaster distributions and qualified 2017
disaster distributions are included in income in equal
amounts over three years. However, if you elect, you can
include the entire qualified 2016 disaster distribution or
the entire qualified 2017 disaster distribution in your income in the year it was received.
Qualified 2016 disaster distributions and qualified 2017
disaster distributions are not subject to the additional 10%
tax (or the additional 25% tax for certain distributions from
SIMPLE IRAs) on early distributions from qualified retirement plans (including IRAs). Also, if you are receiving
substantially equal periodic payments from a qualified retirement plan, the receipt of a qualified 2016 disaster distribution or a qualified 2017 disaster distribution from that
plan will not be treated as a change in those substantially
equal payments merely because of the qualified 2016 disaster distribution or the qualified 2017 disaster distribution. However, any distributions you receive in excess of
the $100,000 qualified 2016 disaster distribution limit or
either of the two $100,000 qualified 2017 disaster distribution limits may be subject to the additional tax on early distributions. See Form 8915A or Form 8915B, as applicable,
for more information on reporting qualified 2016 disaster
distributions and qualified 2017 disaster distributions.

Repayment of Qualified Disaster
Distributions
If you choose, you generally can repay any portion of a
qualified 2016 disaster distribution or a qualified 2017 disaster distribution that is eligible for tax-free rollover treatment to an eligible retirement plan. Also, you can repay a
qualified 2016 disaster distribution or a qualified 2017 disaster distribution made on account of a hardship from a
retirement plan. However, see Exceptions below for qualified 2016 disaster distributions or qualified 2017 disaster
distributions you cannot repay.
You have 3 years from the day after the date you received either the qualified 2016 disaster distribution or the
qualified 2017 disaster distribution to make a repayment.
Amounts that are repaid are treated as a trustee-to-trustee
transfer and are not included in income. Also, for purposes of the one-rollover-per-year limitation for IRAs, a repayment to an IRA is not considered a rollover. See Form
8915A or Form 8915B, as applicable, for more information
on how to report repayments.
Exceptions. You cannot repay the following types of distributions.
1. Qualified 2016 disaster distributions or qualified 2017
disaster distributions received as a beneficiary (other
than as a surviving spouse).
2. Required minimum distributions.
Publication 976 (February 2018)

3. Periodic payments (other than from an IRA) that are
for:
a. A period of 10 years or more,
b. Your life or life expectancy, or
c. The joint lives or joint life expectancies of you and
your beneficiary.

Repayment of Qualified Distributions
for the Purchase or Construction of a
Main Home
If you received a qualified distribution to purchase or construct a main home in the Hurricane Harvey, Irma, or Maria disaster area, you can repay all or any part of that distribution to an eligible retirement plan during the period
beginning on August 23, 2017, and ending on February
28, 2018.
If you received a qualified distribution to purchase or
construct a main home in the California wildfire disaster
area, you can repay all or any part of that distribution to an
eligible retirement plan during the period beginning on October 8, 2017, and ending on June 30, 2018.
To be a qualified distribution, the distribution must meet
all of the following requirements.
1. The distribution is a hardship distribution from a
401(k) plan, a hardship distribution from a tax-sheltered annuity contract, or a qualified first-time homebuyer distribution from an IRA.
2. The distribution was received after February 28,
2017, and before September 21, 2017, for Hurricane
Harvey, Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane Irma, and
Hurricane Maria. For the California wildfires, the distribution was received after March 31, 2017, and before
January 15, 2018.

Loans From Qualified Plans
As described further below, the following benefits are
available to qualified individuals.
Increases to the limits for loans from employer retirement plans.
A 1-year suspension for payments due on plan loans.
Qualified individual. You are a qualified individual if any
of the following apply.
Your main home on August 23, 2017, was located in
the Hurricane Harvey disaster area and you had an
economic loss because of Hurricane Harvey or Tropical Storm Harvey.
Your main home on September 4, 2017, was located
in the Hurricane Irma disaster area and you had an
economic loss because of Hurricane Irma.
Your main home on September 16, 2017, was located
in the Hurricane Maria disaster area and you had an
economic loss because of Hurricane Maria.
Your main home during any portion of the period from
October 8, 2017, to December 31, 2017, was located
in the California wildfire disaster area and you had an
economic loss because of the California wildfires.
Limits on plan loans. The general $50,000 limit on plan
loans may be increased to $100,000 by the plan administrator. In addition, the general loan limit based on 50% of
your vested accrued benefit may be increased to 100% of
that benefit. The higher limits apply only to loans made
during the period beginning on September 29, 2017, and
ending on December 31, 2018, for Hurricane Harvey or
Tropical Storm Harvey, Hurricane Irma, or Hurricane Maria; or the period beginning on February 9, 2018, and ending on December 31, 2018, for the California wildfires.

3. The distribution was to be used to purchase or construct a main home in the Hurricane Harvey, Irma, or
Maria disaster area, or in the California wildfire disaster area that was not purchased or constructed because of Hurricane Harvey, Tropical Storm Harvey,
Hurricane Irma, Hurricane Maria, or the California
wildfires.

One-year suspension of plan loan payments. Payments on plan loans due during the period beginning on
the qualified beginning date and ending on December 31,
2018, may be suspended for 1 year (suspension period)
by the plan administrator. The qualified beginning date is:

An amount that is repaid before March 1, 2018 (July 1,
2018, for repayments as a result of the California wildfires), is treated as a trustee-to-trustee transfer and is not
included in income. Also, for purposes of the one-rollover-per-year limitation for IRAs, a repayment to an IRA is
not considered a rollover.

September 4, 2017, if your main home was located in
the Hurricane Irma disaster area.

A qualified distribution not repaid before March 1, 2018
(July 1, 2018, for repayments as a result of the California
wildfires), may be taxable for 2017 and subject to the additional 10% tax (or the additional 25% tax for certain SIMPLE IRAs) on early distributions.

August 23, 2017, if your main home was located in the
Hurricane Harvey disaster area.

September 16, 2017, if your main home was located
in the Hurricane Maria disaster area.
October 8, 2017, if your main home was located in the
California wildfire disaster area.
If you are a qualified individual based on more than one
disaster, use the suspension period with the earliest beginning date.

You must file Form 8915B if you received a qualified
distribution that you repaid, in whole or in part, before
March 1, 2018 (July 1, 2018, for repayments as a result of
the California wildfires).
Publication 976 (February 2018)

Page 13

Information for Eligible Retirement
Plans
A plan administrator may choose whether to treat a distribution as a qualified 2016 disaster distribution or a qualified 2017 disaster distribution (qualified disaster distribution) or whether to accept a rollover of a qualified disaster
distribution and may develop reasonable procedures for
determining whether distributions are qualified disaster
distributions. However, the treatment of qualified disaster
distributions must be consistent under each plan. The
payment of a qualified disaster distribution to an individual
must be reported on Form 1099-R, Distributions From
Pensions, Annuities, Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans,
IRAs, Insurance Contracts, etc. This reporting is required
even if the individual recontributes the qualified disaster
distribution to the same plan in the same year. If a payer is
treating the payment as a qualified disaster distribution
and no other appropriate code applies, the payer is permitted to use distribution code 2 (early distribution, exception applies) in box 7 of Form 1099-R. However, a payer in
this case is also permitted to use distribution code 1 (early
distribution, no known exception) in box 7 of Form
1099-R.

Days of Presence in a U.S.
Territory
Generally, you are considered to be present in a relevant
possession on any day you are outside the relevant possession because you leave or are unable to return during
any 14-day period within which a major disaster occurs in
the relevant possession for which a Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) notice or a federal declaration of a major disaster is issued in the Federal Register.
Due to Hurricane Irma and Hurricane Maria, the 14-day
period of absence resulting from a major disaster, which
does not count against your days of presence outside a
relevant U.S. territory, has been extended to 268 days effective beginning September 6, 2017, and ending May 31,
2018.
Therefore, an individual who is outside of Puerto Rico
or the U.S. Virgin Islands on any day during this 268-day
period will be treated as leaving or being unable to return
to the relevant U.S. territory as a result of Hurricanes Irma
or Maria, and will not lose their status as a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands during this
period. For more information, see Notice 2017-56 and
Notice 2018-19.

Additional Tax Relief for
Individuals
Earned Income Credit and Additional
Child Tax Credit
Election to use prior year earned income. You may be
able to use your 2016 earned income to figure your
earned income credit (EIC) and additional child tax credit
(ACTC) if:
1. Your 2016 earned income was greater than your 2017
earned income, and
2. At least one of the following statements is true.
a. On August 23, 2017, your main home or the main
home of your spouse if filing jointly was located in
the Hurricane Harvey disaster zone.
b. On August 23, 2017, your main home or the main
home of your spouse if filing jointly was located in
the Hurricane Harvey disaster area (but not in the
disaster zone) and you were displaced from your
home because of Hurricane Harvey.
c. On September 4, 2017, your main home or the
main home of your spouse if filing jointly was located in the Hurricane Irma disaster zone.
d. On September 4, 2017, your main home or the
main home of your spouse if filing jointly was located in the Hurricane Irma disaster area (but not in
the disaster zone) and you were displaced from
your home because of Hurricane Irma.
e. On September 16, 2017, your main home or the
main home of your spouse if filing jointly was located in the Hurricane Maria disaster zone.
f. On September 16, 2017, your main home or the
main home of your spouse if filing jointly was in the
Hurricane Maria disaster area (but not in the disaster zone) and you were displaced from your
home because of Hurricane Maria.
g. On October 8, 2017, your main home or the main
home of your spouse if filing jointly was located in
the California wildfire disaster zone.
h. On October 8, 2017, your main home or the main
home of your spouse if filing jointly was in the California wildfire disaster area (but not in the disaster
zone) and you were displaced from your home because of the California wildfires.
Note. For a listing of the counties, municipalities, and
islands in a disaster zone, see Hurricane Harvey Disaster
Zone, Hurricane Irma Disaster Zone, Hurricane Maria Disaster Zone, or California Wildfire Disaster Zone, earlier.
Joint returns. If you file a joint return, you qualify to
make this election even if only one spouse meets the
requirements. If you make the election, your 2016 earned

Page 14

Publication 976 (February 2018)

income is the sum of your 2016 earned income and your
spouse's 2016 earned income.
To make this election, enter “PYEI” and the amount of
your 2016 earned income in the space next to Form 1040,
line 67; Form 1040A, line 43; or Form 1040NR, line 64,
unless you are also claiming the earned income tax credit.
If you are claiming both the EIC and the ACTC, then you
only need to enter “PYEI” and the amount of your 2016
earned income in the space next to Form 1040, line 66a,
or Form 1040A, line 42a.
If you claimed the ACTC in 2016, you also can

TIP find your 2016 earned income on line 4a of your
2016 Schedule 8812.

If you elect to use your 2016 earned income for
the EIC on Form 1040, line 66a, or Form 1040A,
CAUTION line 42a, you must use your 2016 earned income
to figure the ACTC.

!

Residents of Puerto Rico. If you are a resident of Puerto Rico and you are required to file Form 1040 and you
qualify to use your 2016 earned income to figure the
ACTC, see Election to use prior year earned income
above, and the 2017 Instructions for Schedule 8812. Residents of Puerto Rico with three or more qualifying children
who make this election must also follow the instructions
under Lines 7 through 12—Residents of Puerto Rico Only,
in the 2017 Instructions for Schedule 8812.
Additional child tax credit for bona fide residents
of Puerto Rico. As part of the disaster tax relief enacted
for those impacted by Hurricane Irma or Hurricane Maria,
certain bona fide residents of Puerto Rico can elect to calculate the ACTC by using their total withheld 2016 social
security, Medicare, Additional Medicare Tax, one-half of
their 2016 self-employment tax, and any 2016 social security tax amounts listed under Part I, line 6, of the 2016
Instructions for Form 1040-SS. For more information, see
the 2017 Instructions for Form 1040-SS, U.S. Self-Employment Tax Return; or the 2017 Instrucciónes para el
Formulario 1040-PR.
Note. Residents of the U.S. Virgin Islands whose main
home was in the disaster area for Hurricanes Irma and/or
Maria may be eligible to apply the ACTC rules described
above if their tax home was in Puerto Rico. See Pub. 570,
Tax Guide for Individuals With Income From U.S. Possessions for a definition of tax home.
Nontaxable combat pay. Enter on line 4b of your 2017
Schedule 8812 the total amount of nontaxable combat
pay that you, and your spouse if filing jointly, received in
2017. This amount should be shown in Form W-2, box 12,
with code Q. If you are using 2016 earned income on
line 4a, enter your 2016 nontaxable combat pay on
line 4b.

Publication 976 (February 2018)

If you claimed the ACTC in 2016, you also can

TIP find your 2016 social security taxes on your 2016

Schedule 8812. If you claimed the ACTC in 2016
using Form 1040-SS (or Form 1040-PR), you will have a
record of your 2016 social security taxes in the Additional
Child Tax Credit Worksheet you completed in the separate instructions for that form.

Getting your 2016 tax return information. If you do not
have your 2016 tax records, you can get the amount of
earned income used to figure your 2016 EIC by calling
1-800-908-9946. You can also get this information by visiting IRS.gov/Transcripts.
If you prefer to figure your 2016 earned income yourself, copies or transcripts of your filed and processed tax
returns can help you reconstruct your tax records. See
Request for Copy or Transcript of Tax Return, later.

Additional Tax Relief for
Businesses
Employee Retention Credit
An eligible employer with a U.S. income tax filing requirement who conducted an active trade or business in the
Hurricane Harvey, Hurricane Irma, Hurricane Maria, or the
California wildfire disaster zones may be able to claim the
employee retention credit. For a listing of the counties,
municipalities, and islands in a disaster zone, see Hurricane Harvey Disaster Zone, Hurricane Irma Disaster
Zone, Hurricane Maria Disaster Zone, or California Wildfire Disaster Zone, earlier. The credit is 40% of qualified
wages for each eligible employee (up to a maximum of
$6,000 in qualified wages per employee).
Generally, employers use Form 5884-A, Credits for Affected Disaster Area Employers, to claim the credit. You
must reduce your deduction for salaries and wages by the
amount of this credit. See the following rules and definitions for each disaster.
Employers affected by Hurricane Harvey. The following definitions apply to employers affected by Hurricane
Harvey.
Eligible employer. For this purpose, an eligible employer is an employer who conducted an active trade or
business in the Hurricane Harvey disaster zone on August
23, 2017, and whose trade or business was inoperable on
any day after August 23, 2017, and before January 1,
2018, because of damage caused by Hurricane Harvey.
Eligible employee. For this purpose, an eligible employee is an employee of an eligible employer whose principal place of employment on August 23, 2017, with respect to an eligible employer, was in the Hurricane Harvey
disaster zone. An employee is not an eligible employee for
any period during which the eligible employer is allowed a
work opportunity credit for wages paid or incurred for the
employee.
Page 15

Employers affected by Hurricane Irma. The following
definitions apply to employers affected by Hurricane Irma.
Eligible employer. For this purpose, an eligible employer is an employer who conducted an active trade or
business in the Hurricane Irma disaster zone on September 4, 2017, and whose trade or business was inoperable
on any day after September 4, 2017, and before January
1, 2018, because of damage caused by Hurricane Irma.
Eligible employee. For this purpose, an eligible employee is an employee of an eligible employer whose principal place of employment on September 4, 2017, with respect to an eligible employer, was in the Hurricane Irma
disaster zone. An employee isn’t an eligible employee for
any period during which the eligible employer is allowed a
work opportunity credit or Hurricane Harvey employee retention credit for wages paid or incurred for the employee.
Employers affected by Hurricane Maria. The following
definitions apply to employers affected by Hurricane Maria.
Eligible employer. For this purpose, an eligible employer is an employer who conducted an active trade or
business in the Hurricane Maria disaster zone on September 16, 2017, and whose trade or business was inoperable on any day after September 16, 2017, and before January 1, 2018, because of damage caused by Hurricane
Maria.
Eligible employee. For this purpose, an eligible employee is an employee of an eligible employer whose principal place of employment on September 16, 2017, with
respect to an eligible employer, was in the Hurricane Maria disaster zone. An employee is not an eligible employee
for any period during which the eligible employer is allowed a work opportunity credit, Hurricane Harvey employee retention credit, or Hurricane Irma employee retention credit for wages paid or incurred for the employee.
Employers affected by certain California wildfires.
The following definitions apply to employers affected by
certain California wildfires.
Eligible employer. For this purpose, an eligible employer is an employer who conducted an active trade or
business in the California wildfire disaster zone on October 8, 2017, and whose trade or business was inoperable
on any day after October 8, 2017, and before January 1,
2018, because of damage caused by the California wildfires.
Eligible employee. For this purpose, an eligible employee is an employee of an eligible employer whose principal place of employment on October 8, 2017, with respect to an eligible employer, was in the California wildfire
disaster zone. An employee is not an eligible employee for
any period during which the eligible employer is allowed a
work opportunity credit for wages paid or incurred for the
employee.
Qualified wages. Qualified wages are wages you paid or
incurred before January 1, 2018, (up to $6,000 per employee) for an eligible employee beginning on the date
Page 16

your trade or business first became inoperable at the employee's principal place of employment immediately before the applicable disaster, and ending on the date your
trade or business resumed significant operations at that
place. In addition, the wages must have been paid or incurred after the following date.
August 23, 2017, for Hurricane Harvey.
September 4, 2017, for Hurricane Irma.
September 16, 2017, for Hurricane Maria.
October 8, 2017, for certain California wildfires.
This includes wages paid or incurred even if the employee performed no services, performed services at a
place of employment other than the principal place of employment, or performed services at the principal place of
employment before significant operations resumed.
Wages qualifying for the credit generally have the same
meaning as wages subject to the Federal Unemployment
Tax Act (FUTA). Qualified wages also include amounts
you paid or incurred for medical or hospitalization expenses in connection with sickness or accident disability.
Qualified wages for any employee must be reduced by the
amount of any work supplementation payment you received under the Social Security Act for the employee.
For purposes of this credit, qualified wages paid by a
third-party payer (including an employee leasing company, a professional employer organization, or a Certified
Professional Employer Organization) to eligible employees of an eligible employer are considered qualified wages incurred by the eligible employer. Only the eligible
employer, and not the third-party payer, can take into account such qualified wages in claiming the credit.
For agricultural employees, if the work performed by
any employee during more than half of any pay period
qualified under FUTA as agricultural labor, the first $6,000
of that employee's wages subject to social security and
Medicare taxes are qualified wages.
Qualified wages don’t include wages paid to or incurred
for your dependent or wages paid to or incurred for an
employee related to you. For more information, see Form
5884-A and its separate instructions.

Request for Copy or Transcript
of Tax Return
Request for copy of tax return. You can use Form
4506 to order a copy of your tax return. Generally, there is
a $50 fee for requesting each copy of a tax return. If your
main home, principal place of business, or tax records are
located in a federally declared disaster area, the fee will
be waived if the assigned disaster designation (for example, “Hurricane Harvey,” or “Hurricane Irma,” or “Hurricane
Maria,”) is written, or typed if filing electronically, across
the top of the form when filed.
Request for transcript of tax return. You can use Form
4506-T to order a free transcript of your tax return, which

Publication 976 (February 2018)

provides most of the line entries from a return and usually
contains information that a third party requires.

Publication 976 (February 2018)

Page 17

Qualified 2016 Disasters
Table 1. 2016 Disaster Areas—Disasters Declared by the President in 2016
By State

Type

Date of Declaration

Incident Period

Alabama

Severe Storms, Tornadoes, Straight-line Winds, and
Flooding (DR-4251)

1/21/2016

December 23, 2015 – December 31, 2015

Alaska

Severe Storm (DR-4257)

2/17/2016

December 12, 2015 – December 15, 2015

Arkansas

Severe Storms, Tornadoes, Straight-line Winds, and
Flooding (DR-4254)

2/5/2016

December 26, 2015 – January 22, 2016

Arkansas

Severe Storms, Tornadoes, Straight-line Winds, and
Flooding (DR-4270)

5/6/2016

March 08, 2016 – March 13, 2016

Delaware

Severe Winter Storm and Flooding (DR-4265)

3/16/2016

January 22, 2016 – January 23, 2016

District of Columbia (DC)

Snowstorm (DR-4260)

3/4/2016

January 22, 2016 – January 23, 2016

Florida

Hurricane Matthew (DR-4283)

10/8/2016

October 03, 2016 – October 19, 2016

Florida

Hurricane Hermine (DR-4280)

9/28/2016

August 31, 2016 – September 11, 2016

Georgia

Severe Storms and Flooding (DR-4259)

2/26/2016

December 22, 2015 – January 13, 2016

Georgia

Hurricane Matthew (DR-4284)

10/8/2016

October 04, 2016 – October 15, 2016

Hawaii

Severe Storms, Flooding, Landslides, and Mudslides
(DR-4282)

10/6/2016

September 11, 2016 – September 14, 2016

Idaho

Severe Winter Storms (DR-4252)

2/1/2016

December 16, 2015 – December 27, 2015

Iowa

Severe Storms, Straight-line Winds, and Flooding (DR4281)

9/29/2016

August 23, 2016 – August 27, 2016

Iowa

Severe Storms and Flooding (DR-4289)

10/31/2016

September 21, 2016 – October 03, 2016

Kansas

Severe Storms and Flooding (DR-4287)

10/20/2016

September 02, 2016 – September 12, 2016

Kentucky

Severe Storms, Tornadoes, Flooding, Landslides, and
Mudslides (DR-4278)

8/26/2016

July 02, 2016 – July 09, 2016

Louisiana

Severe Storms and Flooding (DR-4263)

3/13/2016

March 08, 2016 – April 08, 2016

Louisiana

Severe Storms and Flooding (DR-4277)

8/14/2016

August 11, 2016 – October 02, 2016

Maryland

Severe Winter Storm and Snowstorm (DR-4261)

3/4/2016

January 22, 2016 – January 23, 2016

Maryland

Severe Storm and Flooding (DR-4279)

9/16/2016

July 30, 2016 – July 31, 2016

Mississippi

Severe Storms and Flooding (DR-4268)

3/25/2016

March 09, 2016 – March 29, 2016

Mississippi

Severe Storms, Tornadoes, Straight-line Winds, and
Flooding (DR-4248)

1/4/2016

December 23, 2015 – December 28, 2015

Missouri

Severe Storms, Tornadoes, Straight-line Winds, and
Flooding (DR-4250)

1/21/2016

December 23, 2015 – January 09, 2016

Montana

Severe Winter Storm and Straight-line Winds (DR- 4271)

5/24/2016

April 15, 2016 – April 16, 2016

Montana

Tornado (DR-4275)

8/3/2016

June 11, 2016

New Jersey

Severe Winter Storm and Snowstorm (DR-4264)

3/14/2016

January 22, 2016 – January 24, 2016

North Carolina

Hurricane Matthew (DR-4285)

10/9/2016

October 04, 2016 – October 25, 2016

Oklahoma

Severe Storms and Flooding (DR-4274)

7/15/2016

June 11, 2016 – June 13, 2016

Oklahoma

Severe Winter Storms and Flooding (DR-4256)

2/10/2016

December 26, 2015 – January 05, 2016

Oregon

Severe Winter Storms, Straight-line Winds, Flooding,
Landslides, and Mudslides (DR-4258)

2/17/2016

December 06, 2015 – December 23, 2015

Pennsylvania

Severe Winter Storm and Snowstorm (DR-4267)

3/23/2016

January 22, 2016 – January 23, 2016

Pennsylvania

Severe Storms and Flooding (DR-4292)

12/2/2016

October 20, 2016 – October 21, 2016

South Carolina

Hurricane Matthew (DR-4286)

10/11/2016

October 04, 2016 – October 30, 2016

Tennessee

Wildfires (DR-4293)

12/15/2016

November 28, 2016 – December 09, 2016

Texas

Severe Storms and Flooding (DR-4269)

4/25/2016

April 17, 2016 – April 30, 2016

Texas

Severe Storms and Flooding (DR-4272)

6/11/2016

May 22, 2016 – June 24, 2016

Texas

Severe Storms, Tornadoes, and Flooding (DR-4266)

3/19/2016

March 07, 2016 – March 29, 2016

Texas

Severe Winter Storms, Tornadoes, Straight-line Winds,
and Flooding (DR-4255)

2/9/2016

December 26, 2015 – January 22, 2016

Virginia

Severe Winter Storm and Snowstorm (DR-4262)

3/7/2016

January 22, 2016 – January 23, 2016

Virginia

Hurricane Matthew (DR-4291)

11/2/2016

October 07, 2016 – October 15, 2016

Washington

Severe Storms, Straight-line Winds, Flooding,
Landslides, and Mudslides (DR-4249)

1/15/2016

November 12, 2015 – November 21, 2015

Washington

Severe Winter Storm, Straight-Line Winds, Flooding,
Landslides, Mudslides, and a Tornado (DR-4253)

2/2/2016

December 01, 2015 – December 14, 2015

West Virginia

Severe Storms, Flooding, Landslides, and Mudslides
(DR-4273)

6/25/2016

June 22, 2016 – June 29, 2016

Wisconsin

Severe Storms and Flooding (DR-4276)

8/9/2016

July 11, 2016 – July 12, 2016

Wisconsin

Severe Storms, Flooding, and Mudslides (DR-4288)

10/20/2016

September 21, 2016 – September 22, 2016

Page 18

Publication 976 (February 2018)

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue, need help preparing your tax return, or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov and find resources
that can help you right away.
Preparing and filing your tax return. Find free options
to prepare and file your return on IRS.gov or in your local
community if you qualify.
The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program
offers free tax help to people who generally make $54,000
or less, persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help preparing their
own tax returns. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE)
program offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers
specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
You can go to IRS.gov to see your options for preparing
and filing your return which include the following.
Free File. Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile. See if you qualify
to use brand-name software to prepare and e-file your
federal tax return for free.
VITA. Go to IRS.gov/VITA, download the free IRS2Go
app, or call 1-800-906-9887 to find the nearest VITA
location for free tax preparation.
TCE. Go to IRS.gov/TCE, download the free IRS2Go
app, or call 1-888-227-7669 to find the nearest TCE
location for free tax preparation.
Getting answers to your tax questions. On
IRS.gov get answers to your tax questions anytime, anywhere.
Go to IRS.gov/Help or IRS.gov/LetUsHelp pages for a
variety of tools that will help you get answers to some
of the most common tax questions.

an order and have forms mailed to you within 10 business
days.
Access your online account (Individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.
View the amount you owe, pay online or set up an online payment agreement.
Access your tax records online.
Review the past 18 months of your payment history.
Go to IRS.gov/SecureAccess to review the required
identity authentication process.
Using direct deposit. The fastest way to receive a tax
refund is to combine direct deposit and IRS e-file. Direct
deposit securely and electronically transfers your refund
directly into your financial account. Eight in 10 taxpayers
use direct deposit to receive their refund. IRS issues more
than 90% of refunds in less than 21 days.
Delayed refund for returns claiming certain credits.
Due to changes in the law, the IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February 2018, for returns that properly claimed
the earned income credit (EIC) or the additional child tax
credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire refund, not just
the portion associated with these credits.
Getting a transcript or copy of a return. The quickest
way to get a copy of your tax transcript is to go to IRS.gov/
Transcripts. Click on either "Get Transcript Online" or "Get
Transcript by Mail" to order a copy of your transcript. If
you prefer, you can:
Order your transcript by calling 1-800-908-9946.
Mail Form 4506-T or Form 4506T-EZ (both available
on IRS.gov).
Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

Go to IRS.gov/ITA for the Interactive Tax Assistant, a
tool that will ask you questions on a number of tax law
topics and provide answers. You can print the entire
interview and the final response for your records.

The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EIC) determines if you’re eligible for the EIC.

Go to IRS.gov/Pub17 to get Pub. 17, Your Federal Income Tax for Individuals, which features details on
tax-saving opportunities, 2017 tax changes, and thousands of interactive links to help you find answers to
your questions. View it online in HTML, as a PDF, or
download it to your mobile device as an eBook.

The IRS Withholding Calculator (IRS.gov/W4App) estimates the amount you should have withheld from
your paycheck for federal income tax purposes.

You may also be able to access tax law information in
your electronic filing software.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all of the forms and publications you may need. You can also download and view
popular tax publications and instructions (including the
1040 instructions) on mobile devices as an eBook at no
charge. Or, you can go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to place
Publication 976 (February 2018)

The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number.

The First Time Homebuyer Credit Account Look-up
(IRS.gov/HomeBuyer) tool provides information on
your repayments and account balance.
The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/
SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040),
choose not to claim state and local income taxes, and
you didn’t save your receipts showing the sales tax
you paid.

Page 19

Resolving tax-related identity theft issues.
The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by
email or telephone to request personal or financial information. This includes any type of electronic communication, such as text messages and social media
channels.
Go to IRS.gov/IDProtection for information and videos.
If your SSN has been lost or stolen or you suspect
you’re a victim of tax-related identity theft, visit
IRS.gov/ID to learn what steps you should take.
Checking on the status of your refund.
Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
Due to changes in the law, the IRS can’t issue refunds
before mid-February 2018, for returns that properly
claimed the EIC or the ACTC. This applies to the entire refund, not just the portion associated with these
credits.
Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.
Call the automated refund hotline at 1-800-829-1954.
Making a tax payment. The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to ensure your electronic payments are
safe and secure. You can make electronic payments online, by phone, and from a mobile device using the
IRS2Go app. Paying electronically is quick, easy, and
faster than mailing in a check or money order. Go to
IRS.gov/Payments to make a payment using any of the
following options.
IRS Direct Pay: Pay your individual tax bill or estimated tax payment directly from your checking or savings account at no cost to you.
Debit or credit card: Choose an approved payment
processor to pay online, by phone, and by mobile device.
Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Offered only when filing your federal taxes using tax preparation software
or through a tax professional.
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: Best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
Check or money order: Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.
Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
a participating retail store.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.
Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/
OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.
Page 20

Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier (IRS.gov/
OIC) to see if you can settle your tax debt for less than
the full amount you owe.
Checking the status of an amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040X amended returns. Please note that it can take up to 3 weeks
from the date you mailed your amended return for it to
show up in our system and processing it can take up to 16
weeks.
Understanding an IRS notice or letter. Go to IRS.gov/
Notices to find additional information about responding to
an IRS notice or letter.
Contacting your local IRS office. Keep in mind, many
questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting an
IRS Tax Assistance Center (TAC). Go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about most. If you still
need help, IRS TACs provide tax help when a tax issue
can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs now provide service by appointment so you’ll know in advance
that you can get the service you need without long wait
times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TACLocator to find
the nearest TAC, check hours, available services, and appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app, under the Stay
Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and click on
“Local Offices.”
Watching IRS videos. The IRS Video portal
(IRSvideos.gov) contains video and audio presentations
for individuals, small businesses, and tax professionals.
Getting tax information in other languages. For taxpayers whose native language isn’t English, we have the
following resources available. Taxpayers can find information on IRS.gov in the following languages.
Spanish (IRS.gov/Spanish).
Chinese (IRS.gov/Chinese).
Vietnamese (IRS.gov/Vietnamese).
Korean (IRS.gov/Korean).
Russian (IRS.gov/Russian).
The IRS TACs provide over-the-phone interpreter service in over 170 languages, and the service is available
free to taxpayers.

The Taxpayer Advocate Service Is
Here To Help You
What is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent organization within the IRS that helps taxpayers and
protects taxpayer rights. Our job is to ensure that every
taxpayer is treated fairly and that you know and understand your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights.

Publication 976 (February 2018)

What Can the Taxpayer Advocate Service
Do For You?
We can help you resolve problems that you can’t resolve
with the IRS. And our service is free. If you qualify for our
assistance, you will be assigned to one advocate who will
work with you throughout the process and will do everything possible to resolve your issue. TAS can help you if:

Toolkit at TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov can help you understand what these rights mean to you and how they apply.
These are your rights. Know them. Use them.

How Else Does the Taxpayer Advocate
Service Help Taxpayers?

Your problem is causing financial difficulty for you,
your family, or your business,

TAS works to resolve large-scale problems that affect
many taxpayers. If you know of one of these broad issues,
please report it to us at IRS.gov/SAMS.

You face (or your business is facing) an immediate
threat of adverse action, or

Low Income Taxpayer Clinics

You’ve tried repeatedly to contact the IRS but no one
has responded, or the IRS hasn’t responded by the
date promised.

Low Income Taxpayer Clinics (LITCs) are independent
from the IRS. LITCs represent individuals whose income
is below a certain level and need to resolve tax problems
with the IRS, such as audits, appeals, and tax collection
disputes. In addition, clinics can provide information about
taxpayer rights and responsibilities in different languages
for individuals who speak English as a second language.
Services are offered for free or a small fee. To find a clinic
near you, visit TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/LITCmap or
see IRS Publication 4134, Low Income Taxpayer Clinic
List.

How Can You Reach Us?
We have offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
and Puerto Rico. Your local advocate’s number is in your
local directory and at TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/
Contact-Us. You can also call us at 1-877-777-4778.

How Can You Learn About Your Taxpayer
Rights?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes 10 basic rights that
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Our Tax

Publication 976 (February 2018)

Page 21

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

A

Additional child tax credit 14
Additional child tax credit for bona
fide residents of Puerto Rico:
Qualifying child 15
Affected taxpayer 6
Assistance (See Tax help)

C

California wildfire disaster area 5
Casualty and theft losses 7
Charitable contributions 7
Copy of tax return, request for 16
Cost indexes safe harbor:
Calculation of hurricane-related
losses 8
Hurricane-related losses 2
Covered disaster area 4
California wildfires 6
California wildfires, flooding,
mudflows, and debris flows 6
Hurricane Harvey 4
Hurricane Irma 5
Hurricane Maria 5
Tropical Storm Harvey 4
Credits:
Additional child tax 14
Earned income 14
Employee retention 15

D

Days of presence in a U.S.
territory 14
Deadlines, extended 6
Deduction of losses in the
preceding year 8
Disaster area:
California wildfires 5
Hurricane Harvey 4
Hurricane Irma 4
Hurricane Maria 5
Disaster tax rules:
Hurricane Harvey and Tropical
Storm Harvey, Hurricane Irma,
Hurricane Maria, and the
California wildfires 2
Disaster zone:
California wildfire 6

Page 22

Hurricane Harvey 4
Hurricane Irma 5
Hurricane Maria 5
Distributions:
Home purchase or construction 13
Qualified disaster 11
Qualified distribution 11
Taxation of 12
Donation, leave-based programs:
California wildfires 2
Hurricane Harvey 2
Hurricane Irma 2
Hurricane Maria 2
Tropical Storm Harvey 2
Tropical Storm Irma 2
Tropical Storm Maria 2

E

Earned income credit 14
Economic loss 12
Eligible retirement plan 12, 14
Employee retention credit 15
Extended filing deadline 2

F

Florida 5

G

Georgia 5

H

Hurricane Harvey disaster area 4
Hurricane Irma disaster area 4
Hurricane Maria disaster area 5

Louisiana 4

M

Main home 12
Missing children, photographs of 3

P

Plan loan limits 13
Plan loan payment suspension 13
Publications (See Tax help)
Puerto Rico 5

Q

Qualified 2016 disaster
distribution 11
Qualified 2017 disaster
distribution 11
Qualified disaster distributions:
Repayment of 12
Qualified individual 13

R

Retirement plan, eligible 12
Retirement plans 11

S

Safe harbor:
Determination of casualty and theft
losses 10
South Carolina 5

T

Tax help 19
Tax return:
Request for copy 16
I
Request for transcript 16
Identity theft 20
IRAs and other retirement plans 11 Texas 4
Theft losses 7
Transcript of tax return, request
J
for 16
Joint returns 14

L

Loans:
Qualified plan loans 13

U

U.S. Virgin Islands 5

Publication 976 (February 2018)

